Title: 2605.30667v1.pdf

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.30667v1

Published Time: Mon, 01 Jun 2026 00:21:59 GMT

Number of Pages: 10

Markdown Content:
Automa'cally A,acking So2ware Reverse Engineering AI Agents 

Brian Crawford, Jus0n Phillips, Patrick McClure 

Naval Postgraduate School, Monterey, CA, United States 

brian.crawford@nps.edu 

jus0n.phillips@nps.edu 

patrick.mcclure@nps.edu 

Abstract: SoFware tools for reverse engineering executable binary files, such as Ghidra, enable 

malware analysts to safely conduct robust sta0c analysis without having access to original source 

code. Coupled with the analy0c power of large language models (LLM), agen0c systems enabled 

with tools, such as GhidraMCP, can allow analysts to automate a previously human driven process. 

Although this automa0on can increase the produc0vity of a single malware analyst, it also 

introduces a new area of vulnerab ility for malware obfusca0on. This paper presents an 

adversarial technique using gene0c algorithm -based prompt genera0on, a modifica0on of an 

adversarial aPack known as AutoDAN, to demonstrate the ability to deceive LLM -powered 

disassembly and decompl ica0on systems into misinterpre0ng binary executables, effec0vely 

corrup0ng their analy0cal output. This proof -of -concept methodology exploits inherent 

vulnerabili0es in how LLMs process and interpret decompiled machine code via prompt injec0on 

by u sing extraneous string variable assignments to pass surrep00ous instruc0ons to the LLM 

while not impac0ng the func0onality of the executable file. We demonstrate this capability 

through several concise examples. This approach could enable aPackers to bypass automated 

detec0on systems that rely on LLM -driven analysis pipelines. By studying and understanding this 

aPack, insights can be gained regarding the security implica0on of integra0ng LLMs into 

cybersecurity toolchains and building more robust agen0c code analysis systems .

Keywords: prompt injec0on, soFware reverse engineering, LLMs, AI Agents 

1. Introduc'on 

The rise of tools for reverse engineering executable binary files enhanced the ability of soFware 

analysts to determine the func0on of unknown programs through sta0c analysis. Ini0al 

dissembler tools allowed analysts to convert the machine code of an executabl e binary into the 

slightly less tedious assembly language presenta0on. More recently, decompilers, such as IDA Pro, 

Binary Ninja, and Ghidra, take the reverse engineering process one step further conver0ng the 

assembly language into a high -level source code, typically C or C++ (Faingnaert et al., 2024) .

Modern genera0ve large language models (LLM) such as OpenAI’s ChatGPT and Google’s Gemini 

not only have the ability to engage in a contextual chat conversa0on, but these models can now 

also func0on as AI agents with access to external tools and data sources (Bandi et al, 2025) . These 

agen0c capabili0es typically enable an LLM to synthesize informa0on from a document repository 

or internet search results and websites. The development of standards such as Model Context 

Protocol (MCP) enables these LLM agents to access a broader range of tools (Ray, 2025) .

One such protocol , GhidraMCP, allows an LLM to access the soFware analysis capabili0es of 

Ghidra. This agen0c setup allows analysts to automate what was previously a more human -labor 

intensive process. GhidraMCP, when linked with Ghidra and an agen0c capable LLM, can analyze 

an executable binary file and produce a concise summary of the file’s programma0c func0on (Ghimire et al., 2025) . Although this process can result in a produc0vity increase by outsourcing 

tedious analysis work to an AI model, it also introduces a new avenue of vulnerability, namely ,

the security weaknesses inherent within an LLM. 

One such weakness is suscep0bility to prompt injec0on aPacks. Prompt injec0on aPacks take 

advantage of the concatena0on of user input with developer instruc0ons and the LLM’s inability 

to dis0nguish between the two (Kosinski et al, 2026) . In a direct prompt injec0on aPack the query 

sent to the LLM by the user is designed to elicit a n undesired response. In an indirect aPack a 

prompt injec0on is input through the manipula0on of some external resource that is used to 

generate a query rather than manipula0ng the query directly ( Vassilev et al, 2024). Agen0c LLM 

systems have been shown to be suscep0ble to indirect prompt injec0on aPacks from integrated 

tools (Y. Liu et al, 2023). Specifically, AI driven integrated development environments ( IDEs ) are 

also vulnerable to prompt injec0on aPacks implemented in source code files, typically via added 

comments or incorporated text documents thar are analyzed by the LLM (Marzouk, 2025). 

In a n executable binary file these comments are typically ignored by the compiler and are thus 

not an available aPack vector for automated decompiler analysis systems. However, by including 

extraneous string variable assignments that survive the compiling process we inves0gate this 

prompted injec0on vulnerability aided by a novel modifica0on of AutoDAN ( X. Liu et al, 2023) 

thereby influencing the code analysis report output by the LLM interfacing with Ghidra. 

2. Methodology 

This aPack is based on ideas from what Thomas (202 5) calls a transcript hack, where he shows, 

through a number guessing game illustra0on, that if a model is passed what appears to be the 

transcript for the current conversa0on’s history, it will believe that the provided informa0on is 

accurate to previou s turns of the conversa0on. The format for the prompt injec0on aPack uses 

embedded strings that leverage the Ghidra decompile results to convince the target LLM that the 

true decompile results contain errors and to instead analyze the false decompiler output. 

2.1 A,ack Format 

The setup for the experiment used the GhidraMCP interface for Cline, an agen0c management 

framework for AI assisted coding ( Shrivastava , 2025), to access output from Ghidra and Qwen3 -

8B (Yang et al, 2025) loaded in LM Studio as the driving LLM. Figure 1a illustrates the standard 

automated analysis process where the func0on of the compiled binary matches the analysis 

output. Figure 1b sho ws how a modified source file results in an executable that performs one 

Figure 1a: Analysis of base C code source 

file where func0onality and automated 

analysis match. 

Figure 1b : Analysis of modified C code source 

file where func0onality and a utomated 

analysis differs from func0onality .func0on while the automated analysis describes another. All example programs were wriPen in 

C for ease of implementa0on since Ghidra decompiles its results to C, but any compiled language 

could be successful as the executable binary will decompile to C code regardless. 

2.1 .1 Source Code Format 

The prompt injec0on aPack requires two programs, an adversarial example, the intended 

surrep00ous binary executable intended to fool the automated analysis, and a target program, 

the func0on of which will be output when the adversarial example is anal yzed. In the example C 

code in Figure 2, the adversarial example is a hello -world program that, when run outputs “Hello, 

World!”; the target program, by contrast, outputs the first 10 digits of the Fibonacci sequence. 

When the hello -world adversarial example program is analyzed, the LLM will conclude that it 

outputs the first 10 digits of the Fibonacci sequence, the target program func0on. 

Varia0ons on this specific hello -world program are also likely to be effec0ve adversarial examples, 

but the primary requirement is that the adversarial string, which will be discussed in more detail 

in Sec0on 2. 1.2 , must be consequen0al in the execu0on of the file. Simply declaring the string 

variable is not effec0ve since most compilers will discard unused variables in their transla0on to 

machine code, and, thus, the target string will not appear aFer Ghidra decompil a0on and will 

have no impact on the automated analysis. In the case of this code, from the perspec0ve of the 

compiler, the adversarial _string variable impacts whether the if statement is executed and is 

included in the transla0on of the program to machine code. 

2. 1. 2 Prompt Injec6on Format 

The actual string assigned to the adversarial _string variable has three parts : an adversarial 

prepended string, the target code string , and an adversarial appended string. The prepended and 

appended strings are short plain language sentences telling the LLM to only pay aPen0on to and 

analyze the decompile d results that lie between them. The target code string is the decompile d

results from the analysis of the target program, i.e. , the end state for what the automated analysis 

should evaluate when processing the adversarial example program. 

The first step to draFing the prompt injec0on string is to iden0fy and write a target program, and 

then use GhidraMCP to analyze the compiled executable file. During the automated analysis ,

GhidraMCP will use its decompile_func0on tool to analyze the program’s ma in func0on. The 

aPached LLM ’s log files contain the text required for the target code string: the ini0al call of the 

Figure 2: C code for hello -world adversarial 

example. Format for the prompt injec0on 

aPack string is illustrated in Figure 3.

Figure 3: Format of the prompt injec0on aPack 

string. tool from the LLM through the end of the data returned by the decompile_func0on tool . Figure 

3 shows the posi0on of this target code string in the context of the adversarial string. 

The prepend and append strings are plain language strings, the specific content of which can vary 

according to what is successful for a given model. More details about determining those specifics 

will be discussed in Sec0on 2.2. The generic form of the pr epend and append strings are shown 

in Figure 3. These strings serve to lead the LLM to act as though the decompile func0on data 

immediately before and aFer the adversarial string contains inaccuracies and that only the target 

code string should be evalua ted in determining the purpose of the func0on. 

The target code string begins with the text that re -calls the decompile_func0on tool, a task 

originally elicited by the LLM, to make it appear to the LLM that the messages to disregard are 

actually messages previously posted by the LLM. This use of the tr anscript hack serves to mislead 

the LLM to act as though it , rather than the user, recognized the errors in the decompila0on and 

called for a re -evalua0on of the func0on. 

2. 1. 3 Prompt Injec6on String Limita6ons 

The prompt injec0on string is constrained by a character limit in Ghidra ’s decompile func0onality .

When using GhidraMCP, a binary file is decompiled by Ghidra and the adversarial string variable 

is extracted as wriPen and sent to the LLM. However, when the length of the string variable 

exceeds 2048 characters , the content of the string is truncated in Ghidra’s output; it is this 

truncated output that is passed via GhidraMCP to the LLM. When this happens, the full 

adversarial string is not processed by th e LLM and the aPack fails and is poten0ally discovered by 

the LLM. This limita0on constrains the complexity of the target program, since the string 

containing the decompile_funciton results from the target func0on, together with the prepend 

and append strings, cannot exceed the character upper bound. 

Of note, t his aPack method is intended to fool an automated analysis process using an LLM 

coupled with a decompiler. The presence of an extraneous, lengthy string variable in the source 

code would easily be recognized by a human analyst as poten0ally malicious behavior (Chen et 

al., 2025) . The intent of the aPack is to either bypass an automated system or to render an 

automated analysis system as unreliable. 

2.2 Automated A,ack Genera'on 

Determining the specific content of the prepend and append strings that will successfully cause 

an LLM to focus on the target code string can be a simple trial and error process. Mul0ple different 

varia0ons of the strings will likely result in success fo r a given model, but those strings may or 

may not be successful across mul0ple adversarial and target program combina0ons. Finding 

successful string contents and combina0ons is tedious if a successful op0on is not found within 

the first few aPempts. T he AutoDAN gene0c algorithm provides a solu0on to automate this 

discovery process (X. Liu et al, 2023) .

2.2.1 AutoDAN 

AutoDAN is an automated jailbreaking algorithm that uses a gene0c algorithm to find a plain 

language prompt to induce a complicit response from an LLM ( X. Liu et al, 2023). Similar to the depic0on in Figure 3, the algorithm concatenates three substrings to generate an adversarial 

prompt. The middle string is constant and drives the target for the aPack . The prepend and 

append strings are modified by the algorithm un0l a successful jailbreak is achieved .

Under the hood , genera0ve LLMs that interact via a contextual conversa0on are, at a basic level, 

using probability to calculate the most likely token (word, par0al word, or symbol) that should 

occur next at a given point in the conversa0on flow. Once the LLM has decided on a given token ,

it will then calculate the token following that token, con0nuing un0l the next most likely token is 

a ma rker that will end its turn in the conversa0on (Mann et al., 2020) . This is accomplished by the 

LLM compu0ng: 

𝑃 (𝑟 !"#|𝑞 # … 𝑞 $, 𝑟 # … 𝑟 !) (1)

where P is the probability genera0ng a response token, r m+1 , given sequence of n query tokens 

input by the user, q1…qn, followed by a sequence of m previously generated response tokens, 

r1…r m. At each step the LLM selects a token by randomly sampling from Equa0on 1. 

In AutoDAN, t he gene0c algorithm samples f rom a seed list of prepend and append string pairs 

running each through the model and assessing the fitness of each pair. Similar to Equa0on 1, the 

fitness is determined by calcula0ng the loss, but instead of looking at the likelihood of a single 

token given the previous text, the AudoDAN fitness assessment calculates the probability of the 

target response string: 

𝑃 (𝑡 # … 𝑡 % |𝑞 # … 𝑞 $) (2)

where q1…qn and t1…tk represent n tokens of the query and the k targ et response tokens ,

respec0vely. 

The algorithm then keeps the best performing of the prepend/append pairs. From those pairs the 

algorithm generates children by mixing and matching the prepend/append components coupled 

with select synonym replacement muta0ons . New pairs are also sampled from the original seed 

list. This process con0nues in batches un0l a designated stopping criterion , based on substrings 

contained in the LLM’s response, is met. 

2.2 .2 Algorithm Modifica6ons 

Using AutoDAN to find successful prepend/append string pairs in this automated program 

analysis prompt injec0on aPack follows the same basic format where the prepend_string and 

append_string variables are op0mized using the gene0c algorithm. The primary difference in the 

format of the aPack for this research as compared to the original AutoDAN concept is due to the 

adversarial string ’s occurrence within the context of the full program analysis conversa0on. 

For a n instruct model to track conversa0on history the en0re conversa0on record must be passed 

as a part of each query. Because the program analysis is a mul0 -turn conversa0on , the adversarial 

string must be placed in context of the en0re conversa0on record each 0me an prepend/append 

string combina0on is tested for success. When using GhidraMCP through Cline , this conversa0on 

record also includes the Cline system message outlining the model’s purpose and goals as well as 

the tools available on the GhidraMCP server. Addi0onally, the stopping criteria specific to the problem must be set. In t he standard AutoDAN 

algorithm , the response checked for substrings such as “i'm sorry” or “my apologies” that indicate 

the model was not successfully jailbroken. In the case of the example in Figure 2, th e stopping 

criteria is that the response string to contain the substring “fibonacci” (for finding the target 

program behavior) and not contain the substrings “hello” or “world” (for hiding the actual 

program behavior) .

Once a successful prepend/append string pair is found via AutoDAN, the string components can 

then be placed within the adversarial string and the adversarial string placed within the code 

block of the adversarial program example. Ideally, the LLM used for the AutoDAN algorithm and 

the LLM used to interface with GhidraMCP are iden0cal. 

2.2.3 AutoDAN Limita6ons 

The design of the Au toDAN algorithm, however, has constraints that limit the models that work 

with it. AutoDAN is designed to be run on a single GPU, which limits the size of model that the 

algorithm can process (~8B parameters on an 80G GPU). For the executable binary to be analyzed 

and processed by an LLM it requires a large context window of ~20K tokens (larger for longer, 

more complex source code). Without the large context window , the full conversa0on string, 

including the program decompila0on, conversa0on record, and lengthy Cline system message, 

cannot be ingested by the model. Modes with such a small par ameter size do not typically have 

a large enough context window; in fact, all the models tested in the original AutoDAN paper have 

context windows that are too small for this aPack ( X. Liu et al, 2023). Qwen3 -8B is one of the few 

models that meets both criteria. 

3. Experiments and Results 

Experiments were conducted on four executable binary files: two contain ing a single main 

func0on and two contain ing a main func0on and another func0on. APack files were crea0ng 

using Qwen3 -8B and tested against both Qwen3 -8B and GPT -OSS -120B (Agarwal et al. , 2025). 

3.1 Single Func'on Files 

The AutoDAN algorithm using Qwen3 -8B found a successful prepend/append string pair for the 

adversarial example program (the hello -world program in Figure 2) and the target program (a 

program that prints out the first ten digits of the Fibonacci sequence ). The adversarial_string 

variable was then assembled according to the format in Sec0on 2.1 .2 with the 

decompile_func0on analysis of the target program. 

Once the adversarial_string was placed in the program code of Figure 2 the adversarial example 

program is complete. When executed , this program prints the phrase “Hello, World!” and 

terminates. But, when that same program is passed for analysis using Cline with Qwen3 -8B and 

GhidraMCP the LLM concludes that the program outputs the first ten digits of the Fibonacci 

sequence, the func0on performed by the target program instead of the program’s actual 

behavior. 

In th e second single -func0on C code example , the executable binary file’s behavior is to check to 

see if a hard -coded designated file exists. If it does not exist , the program will create it and place some text in the file. The target program’s behavior is to have the user input two numbers and 

then return the sum. When the manipulated source file is compiled, it performs the file checking 

behavior while the automated analysis using Qwen3 -8B determines that the func0on is 

performing addi0on. 

These two single -func0on executable files were also analyzed using Cline and GhidraMCP with 

GPT -OSS -120B as the underlying LLM. The AutoDAN algorithm was not run with GPT -OSS -120B, 

but , rather, the same aPacked executable binary files that proved successful against analysis by 

Qwen3 -8B were also process ed by OGPT -OSS -120B. The aPack was also successful against this 

secondary model where the analysis output by the automated system described the target 

program instead of the actual program behavior. 

GPT -OSS -120B did run an addi0onal GhidraMCP tool that discovered all printed strings (i.e. , used 

with the prinC command) from both the target program and the base program. In the example 

of the code from Figure 2, GPT -OSS -120B did list “Hello, World!” as a printed string, but it did not 

take presence of this string into account in its final analysis. Of note, although the adversarial 

string is a declared string variable, because it was not used with the prinC command , the LLM did 

not list it among the other printed strings, and its presence remain ed hidden in the analysis 

report. 

3.2 Mul' -Func'on Files 

The programs analyzed so far are simple programs with only a main func0on, but the aPack 

methodology can also be applied to more complicated programs with mul0ple func0ons. Due to 

the Ghidra string length limita0ons discussed in Sec0on 2.1.3, embeddi ng a lengthy target code 

string in a program’s main func0on is not feasible. 

For more complicated programs, the aPack can be implemented separately in each func0on 

within a program. The addi0onal setup required for expanding the aPack to mul0ple func0ons is 

to make sure that the target program and the adversarial example prog ram have the same 

number of func0ons and that those func0ons have the same names. This aPacked source code 

format is illustrated in Figure 4. 

This constraint on the func0ons ensures that the target program analysis aligns with the structure 

of the adversarial example program since the aPack targets func0on analysis but not program 

structure. For example, if the target code analysis men0ons c alling func0on_foo, then the target 

LLM could produce unpredictable results or expose the aPack if no func0on_foo is found. 

Similarly, if the target code does not cover a func0on_bar that is found in the adversarial example 

program, the LLM’s analysis will not be consistent. 

It is possible to include a single adversarial string in the main func0on that terminates the analysis 

in such a way that the LLM will terminate its analysis and not examine other func0ons. However, 

this method is more likely to be circumvented if the LL M decides to analyze func0ons besides the 

main func0on. It is also likely to be discovered through cursory human analysis if the executable 

binary has a large file size, but returns a program analysis that is too simple. The AutoDAN algorithm is not configured to find mul0ple successful prompt injec0on aPack 

strings within a single input string. Instead of running these mul0 -func0on programs through 

AutoDAN , the successful prompt injec0on aPack strings found in the single func0on examples 

were used in both func0ons of the mul0 -func0on source code files. 

In the code example in Figure 4, the base program’s func0on add s two hard -coded numbers then 

print s out if the sum of those numbers is greater than or less than 10. The target program’s 

func0on is to compare two hard -coded values represen0ng temperature values and then print a 

statement about the weather being cold or warm. The compiled modified source code performs 

the func0ons of the base program, but the automated analysis using Qwen3 -8B determines the 

func0on to be that of the target program. 

A second mul0 -func0on program was also tested. In the second example , the base program 

computes the factorial value of a number while the target program averages the values contained 

in an array. When the modified binary file is compiled and executed , it performs the func0on of 

the base program and the analysis again claims i ts behavior is that of the target program. 

Both of these mul0 -func0on adversarial examples were also submiPed for analysis using GPT -

OSS -120B. The aPack was also successful with analysis by this larger model. As in the single 

Figure 4: C code for a n adversarial example with a main func0on and one other func0on. func0on analysis , GPT -OSS -120B discovered printed strings in the base programs. In one of the 

files, the automated analysis aPributed the presence of this code to re -use of older code rather 

than as an indica0on of anything nefarious or decep0ve. 

4. Conclusion and Future Work 

The introduc0on of automated analysis tools can greatly expand the workload capabili0es of a 

sta0c soFware analyst, but those same tools also introduce new areas of vulnerability. APacking 

the LLM behind these AI -assisted tools undermines this enhanced capacity by requiring a human 

analyst to exami ne the code to determine its true func0onality. The result is either code that is 

not properly iden0fied or a loss of the efficiency benefit provided by the automa0on process. 

To combat this vulnerability further work should be conducted to discover the full extent of the 

effec0veness of this aPack, specifically how broadly it can be generalized to various LLMs 

including state -of -the -art commercial level models as well as how effec0vely it can be scaled to 

much more complex and poten0ally malicious programs. The executable binaries in the present 

research are simple programs; the results of implemen0ng this same style of aPack on more 

complex files needs to be examined furt her to determine broad applicability of these results. 

Future work should also be done to develop defenses to mi0gate the indirect prompt injec0on 

aPacks inves0gated in this research. 

Ethics Declara'on 

The research did not involve human subjects or data containing personally iden0fiable 

informa0on (PII). Only computer systems administered by the authors were aPacked for this 

research. 

AI Declara'on 

AI was not used in the draFing of this document. AI, however, was used in the development of 

this research for wri0ng sample programs to test the method and for genera0ng the seed text 

that the AutoDAN algorithm uses for genera0ng prompt injec0on strings. 

Disclaimer 

The opinions and views expressed are those of the authors alone and do not necessarily represent 

those of the U.S. Government, U.S. Department of Defense or its components, to include the 

Department of the Navy or the Naval Postgraduate School. 

References 

Agarwal, S., Ahmad, L., Ai, J., Altman, S., Applebaum, A., Arbus, E., Arora, R.K., Bai, Y., Baker, B., 

Bao, H. and Barak, B., 2025. gpt -oss -120b & gpt -oss -20b model card. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2508.10925 .

Bandi, A., Kongari, B., Naguru, R., Pasnoor, S. and Vilipala, S.V., 2025. The rise of agen0c ai: A 

review of defini0ons, frameworks, architectures, applica0ons, evalua0on metrics, and 

challenges. Future Internet , 17 (9), p.404. Chen, X., Zhou, A., Ye, C. and Zhang, C., 2025, October. ClearAgent: Agen0c Binary Analysis for 

Effec0ve Vulnerability Detec0on. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM SIGPLAN Interna6onal Workshop 

on Language Models and Programming Languages (pp. 130 -137). 

Faingnaert, T., Zhang, T., Van Iseghem , W., Everaert, G., Coppens, B., Collberg, C. and De SuPer, 

B., 2024, November. Tools and models for soFware reverse engineering research. In Proceedings 

of the 2024 Workshop on Research on offensive and defensive techniques in the context of Man 

At The End (MATE) aYacks (pp. 44 -58). 

Ghimire, A., Zhang, J., Lingala, S.R., Alsulami, F. and Amsaad, F., 2025. A Survey on Applica0on of 

AI on Reverse Engineering for SoFware Analysis and Security. IEEE Access .

Kosinski, M. and Forrest, A., 2026. ‘What is a Prompt Injec0on APack?’, Gadesha, V. (ed.) The 2026 

Guide to Prompt Engineering [online] Available at: hPps://www.ibm.com/think/topics/prompt -

injec0on (Accessed: 24 February 2026). 

Liu, Y., Deng, G., Li, Y., Wang, K., Wang, Z., Wang, X., Zhang, T., Liu, Y., Wang, H., Zheng, Y. and Liu, 

Y., 2023. Prompt injec0on aPack against llm -integrated applica0ons. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2306.05499 .

Liu, X., Xu, N., Chen, M. and Xiao, C., 2023. Autodan: Genera0ng stealthy jailbreak prompts on 

aligned large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.04451 .

Mann, B., Ryder, N., Subbiah, M., Kaplan, J., Dhariwal, P., Neelakantan, A., Shyam, P., Sastry, G., 

Askell, A. and Agarwal, S., 2020. Language models are few -shot learners. arXiv preprint 

arXiv:2005.14165 , 1(3), p.3. 

Marzouk, A. , 2025 . ‘IDEsaster: A Novel Vulnerability Class in AI IDEs ’, MaccariTA [online] Available 

at: hPps://maccarita.com/posts/idesaster (Accessed: 29 January 2026) .

Ray, P.P., 2025. A survey on model context protocol: Architecture, state -of -the -art, challenges and 

future direc0ons. Authorea Preprints .

Shrivastava, M., 2025. A Compara0ve Featureset Analysis of Agen0c IDE Tools. 

Thomas, G. , 2025 . ‘Why Smart Instruc0on -Following Makes Prompt Injec0on Easier ’, Gile s’ Blog 

[online] Available at: hPps://www.gilesthomas.com/2025/11 (Accessed: 17 December 2025) .

Vassilev, A., Oprea, A., Fordyce, A. and Andersen, H., 2024. Adversarial machine learning: A 

taxonomy and terminology of aPacks and mi0ga0ons. 

Yang, A., Li, A., Yang, B., Zhang, B., Hui, B., Zheng, B., Yu, B., Gao, C., Huang, C., Lv, C. and Zheng, 

C., 2025. Qwen3 technical report. arXiv preprint arXiv:2505.09388 .