Title: Notarized Agents: Receiver-Attested Confidential Receipts for AI Agent Actions

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.04193v1

Published Time: Thu, 04 Jun 2026 00:16:58 GMT

Number of Pages: 22

Markdown Content:
# Notarized Agents: Receiver-Attested Confidential Receipts for AI Agent Actions 

## Juan Figuera Independent Researcher, Sello Project 

## juan@figuera.co 

## Draft of May 30, 2026 

Abstract 

Current AI agent observability is structurally compromised: the entity producing the activ-ity log is the same entity whose activity is being logged. A compromised or buggy agent can omit, alter, or fabricate its own traces, and the operator running the agent has no independent way to detect tampering. We propose a class of protocols that resolves this by inverting the trust boundary: the service that receives an agent’s call signs a receipt of what it observed using its own key, encrypts the receipt to the agent’s owner, and publishes it to a public transparency log. The owner reconstructs a tamper-evident trail without trusting the agent or its operator. We instantiate the class as Sello, a protocol combining four properties absent in any current system: (P1) receiver-side signing, (P2) HPKE encryption to an owner public key bound to the authorization token via JWS, (P3) publication to a witness-cosigned Merkle log, and (P4) owner-side discovery by token reference. We describe the protocol, analyze its security under an adversary that controls the agent and its operator, present microbenchmarks of the crypto-graphic operations, and situate Sello among adjacent receipt-protocol work (Signet, AgentROA, Agent Passport System, draft-farley-acta, SCITT). We discuss known limitations including the suppression attack, service collusion, and the adoption-incentive problem. 

## 1 Introduction 

Agents acting on behalf of humans need to be auditable by those humans. The agent’s owner needs to know not just what the agent claims it did, but what it actually did. This requirement is foundational to deploying agents in any context where the consequences of agent action are non-trivial: financial transactions, healthcare data access, code modification, communication on the principal’s behalf. The dominant approach to agent observability today is to instrument the agent itself, the agent’s runtime, or a proxy in the operator’s infrastructure. Platforms such as Langfuse, LangSmith, Helicone, Braintrust, and AgentOps collect traces from inside the agent’s process and aggregate them for the owner’s inspection. This is the model that has shipped to production at scale, and the model that every commercial agent observability product currently in the market follows. This model fails the threat model that agent deployment actually faces. The agent is the actor; the agent is also the source of truth about its own behavior. When the agent is compromised (by prompt injection, context poisoning, tool-call hijacking, or simply buggy code), the traces it 1

> arXiv:2606.04193v1 [cs.CR] 2 Jun 2026

produces about its own actions cannot be trusted, because the same code path that misbehaves is the code path that writes the trace. When the operator running the agent has misaligned incentives, the traces can be silently rewritten before they reach the owner. The actor is not a reliable narrator of its own actions, and we have known this for the entire history of accounting, law, journalism, and science. Recent work on AI auditing makes a related argument, that black-box query access alone is insufficient for rigorous audits and that auditors need richer forms of access to assess a system’s behavior [Casper et al., 2024]; receiver-attested receipts are one cryptographic answer to that broader question. We can sharpen the requirement concretely. A record of an agent action should be: • unforgeable by the agent or its operator, even given full control of the agent’s runtime; • independently verifiable by the owner, using only public infrastructure and owner-held keys; • confidential from the operators of any public infrastructure used to store or transmit it; • attributable to a party that was actually present when the action occurred and is structurally separate from the agent; • retrievable by the owner after the interaction is complete, even when the agent is unavailable or compromised. No system we surveyed delivers all five. This paper applies a different architectural principle, one with deep precedent outside computing. In every legal, scientific, and commercial system where the truthfulness of a record matters, the record is written by a party who was present at the event but is independent of the principal. Mesopotamian commercial contracts circa 3000 BCE were impressed into clay tablets witnessed by named third parties whose seals were unique to each. Roman notaries inherited the practice. Me-dieval scribes, customs officers, court reporters, lab technicians, and modern notarization systems all rest on the same idea. When the recording party is structurally separate from the recorded party, the record carries weight. Apple’s Find My network applies this principle in modern infrastructure. AirTags do not phone home; they cannot, because they are passive Bluetooth devices with no internet connection. Instead, every iPhone in the world that walks past an AirTag submits an end-to-end encrypted “I saw tag X near me” report that only the tag’s owner can decrypt. The tracked object is dumb. The witnesses, independent iPhones, none controlled by the tag’s owner, are what produce the verifiable record [Heinrich et al., 2021]. We port this architectural inversion to AI agent observability. The agent is the tracked object. Every service the agent talks to (MCP server, API, tool endpoint, A2A peer) is a witness. Each witness signs a receipt of the interaction it observed using its own cryptographic key, encrypts the receipt to the agent owner’s public key, and publishes the encrypted receipt to a public transparency log. The owner reconstructs the agent’s activity by querying the log, verifying signatures against a registry of service identities, and decrypting receipts locally. The agent never holds any of the signing keys involved. The operator never holds the owner’s encryption key. A compromised agent 2cannot fake its trail because the trail is signed by parties it does not control. We call this class of protocols notarization for AI agents . Members of the class can differ in their authorization-token format, their choice of transparency log, and their service-identity system, while sharing the four defining properties. We instantiate the class as Sello , a protocol that combines four properties absent in any system we surveyed: receiver-side signing by the called service (P1), HPKE encryption to an owner public key cryptographically bound to the authorization token (P2), publication to a witness-cosigned Merkle log (P3), and owner-side discovery by token reference (P4). The combination is the contribution. 

Contributions 

This paper makes four contributions: 1. We identify the trust-boundary inversion as a structural fix for AI agent observability and ar-ticulate the four cryptographic properties (P1-P4) that distinguish notarized-agent protocols from existing approaches. 2. We specify Sello, a concrete instantiation built on standard primitives (COSE_Sign1, HPKE, Ed25519, Merkle transparency logs) and define a JWS token profile that cryptographically binds the owner’s HPKE encryption key to the authorization token presented by the agent. 3. We propose using the transparency log’s integrated time as the binding clock for key revoca-tion decisions, separating it from the service-asserted timestamp in the receipt body. This addresses a class of attacks where a compromised service backdates receipts to predate its key compromise. 4. We provide a property-by-property comparison of Sello against existing receipt-protocol work (Signet, AgentROA, Agent Passport System, draft-farley-acta, agentreceipts.ai, Pipelock, At-tested Intelligence, and the SCITT working group), showing that no current system combines all four properties. We also honestly state what Sello does not solve: the suppression attack (the agent simply not calling services produces no receipts), service collusion, and the adoption-incentive problem (services must choose to emit receipts; today, none have reason to). The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 covers background and related work. Section 3 specifies the threat model and design goals. Section 4 specifies the Sello protocol. Section 5 analyzes its security properties under the threat model. Section 6 distinguishes per-receipt verifiability from set-completeness and discusses retrieval guarantees. Section 7 presents microbenchmarks. Section 8 discusses limitations, the adoption-incentive problem, and future extensions. Section 9 concludes. 32 Background and Related Work 

We briefly review the cryptographic primitives Sello composes, then survey existing work on cryp-tographic receipts for AI agent actions. 

2.1 Cryptographic primitives COSE_Sign1 [Schaad, 2022] is the CBOR Object Signing and Encryption single-signer signature structure. It is the binary equivalent of JWS for CBOR-encoded payloads. We use COSE_Sign1 as the signing envelope for Sello receipts because it is the format used by the IETF SCITT working group for transparency receipts [Birkholz et al., 2026], giving Sello a natural alignment path for standardization. 

HPKE (Hybrid Public Key Encryption) [Barnes et al., 2022] is a standardized public-key encryption scheme that combines a Key Encapsulation Mechanism (KEM), a Key Derivation Func-tion (KDF), and an Authenticated Encryption with Associated Data (AEAD) primitive. Sello uses HPKE in single-shot mode with X25519 for the KEM, HKDF-SHA256 for the KDF, and ChaCha20-Poly1305 for the AEAD. HPKE is used in TLS Encrypted Client Hello and MLS, giving it deep production validation. 

JWS (JSON Web Signature) [Jones et al., 2015] is the JSON serialization for signed payloads. Sello defines a JWS-based authorization token profile in which the owner’s HPKE public key is carried as a claim. We use compact serialization. Other token formats (UCAN, biscuits, macaroons) would require their own analogous profiles in future versions. 

Transparency logs as we use them are append-only Merkle trees with witness cosigning, descend-ing from Certificate Transparency [Laurie et al., 2013, 2021]. The witness cosigning idea originates with Syta et al.’s CoSi protocol [Syta et al., 2016], which formalized the principle that an author-itative statement should be validated and publicly logged by a diverse group of witnesses before any client accepts it. Modern instances include Sigstore Rekor [The Sigstore Authors, 2024], which Sello uses as its v0.1 reference log. 

2.2 Receipt protocols for AI agent actions 

The “receipts” vocabulary for agent actions has emerged across several projects in 2024-2026, each making different architectural choices. We summarize each and identify which of Sello’s four prop-erties they have and which they lack. Section 7.4 contains the full comparison table. 

Agent Receipts [Jongerius, 2025–2026] is an open specification maintained by Otto Jongerius defining cryptographically signed agent action receipts using Ed25519 and W3C Verifiable Creden-tials. The author frames it as “C2PA Content Credentials for agent actions.” The signer in Agent Receipts is the agent platform itself, which places the signing key on the operator’s side of the trust boundary. 

Signet [Hou, 2025–2026] is an MCP-focused middleware project maintained by William Hou. v0.4 introduced bilateral co-signing in which the MCP server holds its own Ed25519 key and signs 4response receipts. v0.10 introduced envelope encryption using XChaCha20-Poly1305 with a key derived from the signing identity. Signet is the closest existing system to Sello’s design, but the encryption key is not separated from the signing identity, there is no public transparency log integration, and the trust bundle is currently a hand-edited JSON file. 

Pipelock [PipeLab, 2026] ships an out-of-process mediator signer that runs as a sidecar to the agent’s runtime. The architecture explicitly distinguishes between in-process signing (the weakest trust model), operator-deployed mediator signing (Pipelock’s current shipping mode), and inde-pendent third-party witness signing (listed as roadmap). Pipelock has not shipped the third-party variant. 

Agent Passport System (APS) [Pidlisnyi, 2025–2026] by Tymofii Pidlisnyi defines Wave 1 ac-countability primitives consisting of four receipt types: ActionReceipt, AuthorityBoundaryReceipt, CustodyReceipt, and ContestabilityReceipt. ActionReceipt is signed by the executing agent rather than the receiving service, which is a deliberate design choice that addresses a different threat model than ours. 

draft-farley-acta-signed-receipts [Farley, 2026] is an IETF Internet-Draft by Tom Farley at ScopeBlind defining a portable signed receipt format for machine-to-machine access control deci-sions. The reference implementation (protect-mcp) is a stdio proxy between agent and MCP server, signing decision receipts on behalf of whoever operates the proxy. Receipts use deterministic JSON canonicalization with Ed25519. The draft does not specify encryption to a recipient and does not integrate with a transparency log. 

draft-nivalto-agentroa-route-authorization [Michalak, 2026] is an IETF Internet-Draft by Joseph Michalak at Nivalto defining Agent Enforcement Receipts (AERs) intended for submis-sion to SCITT-compatible transparency logs. The signer is the egress border gateway operating under the operator’s trust domain. AgentROA has the SCITT-log piece of Sello’s design but signs at operator-controlled infrastructure rather than at the receiving service. 

Attested Intelligence [Attested Intelligence Holdings LLC, 2026] ships an MCP governance proxy (@attested-intelligence/aga-mcp-server ) that emits Ed25519-signed receipts for every MCP tool call, hash-linked into a tamper-evident continuity chain, packaged as offline-verifiable evidence bundles. The company holds USPTO Patent Application 19/433,835 (filed December 28, 2025) on the “Attested Governance Artifacts” (AGA) architecture, which uses standard cryptography (Ed25519, ML-DSA-65, SHA-256, Merkle trees) and explicitly does not require Trusted Execution Environments. The Portal that signs receipts sits in the operator’s trust boundary; the agent holds no keys. Receipts are distributed point-to-point as evidence bundles rather than published to a transparency log, and are not encrypted to an owner public key. Target markets include defense, SCADA/ICS, regulated industries (finance, healthcare), and enterprise agentic AI governance. The three independent patent claims cover the Portal runtime with sealed policy and drift detection, a substitution-based privacy mechanism with claims taxonomy, and a continuity chain with payload-excluded leaf hashes; Sello uses receiver-attested signing, HPKE encryption to owner, and a payload-inclusive transparency log, none of which read on these claims. 5SCITT (Supply Chain Integrity, Transparency, and Trust) is an active IETF working group [Birkholz et al., 2026, Steele and Birkholz, 2026] standardizing the COSE_Sign1 transparency re-ceipt framework. No current SCITT WG draft applies the framework to AI agent tool calls; existing profiles cover supply-chain artifacts (e.g. CCF [Delignat-Lavaud et al., 2026]) and one individual submission on financial trading audit (draft-kamimura-scitt-vcp [Kamimura, 2026]). 

2.3 Adjacent academic work 

Three recent papers are intellectually adjacent to Sello but make different architectural choices. 

“Right to History: A Sovereignty Kernel for Verifiable AI Agent Execution” by Jing Zhang [Zhang, 2026] proposes a personal-hardware sovereignty kernel (PunkGo) that produces tamper-evident records of agent actions using an RFC 6962 Merkle tree audit log local to the owner’s machine. The architectural difference is fundamental: Right to History assumes the owner has hardware-level control of the agent’s execution environment and can therefore observe every action at the kernel level. Sello assumes the opposite: agents run on hosted infrastructure outside the owner’s control, and the owner relies on the services the agent touches to attest to what they observed. 

“Verifiability-First Agents” by Abhivansh Gupta [Gupta, 2025] proposes embedded Audit Agents that continuously verify intent versus behavior. The verification is structural rather than cryptographic: a second agent reads the first agent’s plans and outputs and checks for divergence. This complements Sello (Audit Agents could consume Sello receipts as their ground truth) but does not solve the underlying attestation problem. 

“Tool Receipts, Not Zero-Knowledge Proofs” by Abhinaba Basu [Basu, 2026] proposes HMAC-signed receipts generated by the agent’s runtime to detect hallucinations. The architec-tural difference is that the runtime is part of the agent’s trust boundary, so the receipts cannot defend against a compromised operator. 

## 3 Threat Model and Design Goals 

3.1 System model 

A Sello deployment has four actors: • An owner who deploys an agent and holds a long-term HPKE key pair. The public key is bound to authorization tokens issued for the agent’s use. • An agent , autonomous software acting on the owner’s behalf, which presents authorization tokens when calling services. • A set of services the agent calls. Each service holds its own long-term Ed25519 signing key, independent of the owner and the operator. • A set of public transparency logs that accept signed entries, return Merkle inclusion proofs, and are cosigned by independent witnesses. 63.2 Adversary model 

We assume a powerful adversary who may: • Compromise the agent and arbitrarily edit its local logs, traces, and outputs. • Control the agent’s operator infrastructure, including the runtime, the network path, and any operator-side telemetry or audit systems. • Read the public transparency log in full. • Submit arbitrary bytes to the log, including bytes that purport to be Sello receipts but cannot pass verification without possession of a legitimate service’s signing key. We assume the adversary does NOT possess: • The Ed25519 signing keys held by legitimate services. • The HPKE private key of the agent owner. These assumptions are non-trivial but standard. Service key compromise is a known attack class, and the system must degrade gracefully under it (we discuss this in Section 5.3). Owner key loss is a known limitation of any owner-encrypted system and renders past receipts undecryptable; key escrow is out of scope for v0.1. We also assume at least one service the agent calls is honest and uncompromised within the relevant time window. If every service colludes with the agent operator, Sello cannot detect what they jointly fabricate. The system’s effectiveness scales with the plurality of independent services. 

3.3 Design goals 

A protocol meeting our threat model must provide the following properties: 

P1. Receiver-side signing. The signing key is held by the service receiving the agent’s call. Not the agent, not the operator, not any gateway or proxy in the operator’s trust boundary. This is the inversion that makes the rest possible: it places the signer in the only position that observes the call directly while being independent of the parties with incentive to misrepresent it. 

P2. Encryption to owner. Receipt contents are encrypted to the agent owner’s public key using asymmetric authenticated encryption. The owner’s public key must be bound to the authorization token by a mechanism that cannot be subverted by an adversary substituting a different recipient. This property is what makes it safe to publish receipts on shared public infrastructure. 

P3. Public transparency log. Receipts are appended to an append-only Merkle log with witness cosigning. The log provides tamper-evidence for logged receipts and global verifiability of inclusion. Completeness of retrieval is a separate property and depends on the query mechanism (Section 6). 

P4. Owner-side discovery. The owner queries the log by authorization-token-derived reference, decrypts receipts locally with their private key, and verifies signatures against a registry of service identities. No party in the middle reconstructs the trail; no party in the middle can see it. A protocol that satisfies P1 alone is “receiver-attested” but its receipts cannot safely live on public 7infrastructure (privacy leak). A protocol that satisfies P1+P2 can publish to a private log but inherits the trust assumptions of that log’s operator. A protocol that satisfies P1+P2+P3 still requires P4 to be useful to owners who don’t control the infrastructure agents run on. The four properties together are what makes the architecture work. 

## 4 The Sello Protocol 

4.1 Receipt structure 

A Sello receipt is a COSE_Sign1 envelope wrapping an HPKE-encrypted payload. The structure is: receipt = COSE_Sign1 (HPKE.Seal 𝑝𝑘 owner (body ), sk service )

Where: • 𝑝𝑘 owner is the owner’s X25519 public key, bound to the authorization token (Section 4.2) • 𝑠𝑘 service is the service’s Ed25519 private signing key • body is a CBOR-encoded structure describing the action The body is defined in CDDL [Birkholz et al., 2019] notation, where ? denotes an optional field: 

receipt-body = { agent-identifier: tstr, ; derived from token hash action-type: tstr, ; e.g. "tools/call" action-input-hash: bstr, ; SHA-256 over canonicalized input action-output-hash: bstr, ; SHA-256 over canonicalized output result-status: tstr, ; "success" | "error" | "denied" timestamp: tdate, ; RFC 3339 UTC timestamp ? service-defined-fields: any }

Action inputs and outputs are referenced by SHA-256 hash, not included verbatim, to keep receipts small and to limit what the owner can reconstruct without independent access to the inputs. The COSE_Sign1 protected header carries: • alg = -8 (EdDSA / Ed25519) • kid (binary key identifier for the service’s signing key) • sello_version = "0.1.0" 

• sello_token_ref = SHA-256(authorization-token-bytes) 

• sello_log_url (canonical URL of the log this receipt was published to) The protected header is what the receiver uses to look up the service’s public key and the log’s identity at verification time. 84.2 The JWS owner-key binding 

The central novel mechanism in Sello is how the receiving service learns which public key to encrypt to. The owner cannot publish a static directory of public keys (the agent could call any service, and most services have no way to look up “who is this agent’s owner”). The agent cannot present the owner’s pubkey directly without enabling substitution attacks. We solve this by carrying the owner’s HPKE public key as a signed claim inside the agent’s au-thorization token. The v0.1 token profile uses compact-serialized JWS [Jones et al., 2015] whose payload is a UTF-8-encoded JSON object containing the claim: 

{

... 

"owner_hpke_pk": "base64url(32-byte X25519 public key)", "sello_logs": ["https://log1.example.com", ... ]}

The JWS signature, verifiable against the token issuer’s public key, cryptographically binds the owner’s HPKE public key to the authorization token. An adversary who substitutes a different pubkey invalidates the JWS. An adversary who reuses a captured token cannot change the recipient. When a service receives an agent call, it: 1. Verifies the JWS signature against the token issuer’s verification key. 2. Extracts owner_hpke_pk from the verified claims. 3. Uses it as the HPKE recipient key when encrypting the receipt payload. This mechanism is, as far as we have been able to determine, novel. We searched OAuth, JWS, and JWT specifications and extensions for prior art on token-bound encryption-recipient public keys and found none. The closest existing mechanism is DPoP [Fett et al., 2023], which binds a signing 

public key to a token for proof-of-possession. Sello’s mechanism binds an encryption public key for confidential receipts; the cryptographic direction is opposite. 

4.3 Protocol flow 

When an agent calls a service: 1. The service receives the call and verifies the agent’s authorization token (JWS signature against the issuer’s key). 2. The service performs the requested action (or refuses, if its own authorization policy denies). 3. The service constructs a receipt body describing the action. 4. The service encrypts the body to owner_hpke_pk using HPKE single-shot mode. 5. The service signs the encrypted envelope using COSE_Sign1 with its Ed25519 private key. 6. The service submits the signed envelope to a transparency log listed in the token’s sello_logs 

claim (or by local policy if the claim is absent). 7. The log returns an inclusion proof. 9When the owner wishes to reconstruct the agent’s activity: 1. The owner computes sello_token_ref = SHA-256(token-bytes) over the same raw token bytes presented by the agent. 2. The owner queries each trusted log for entries matching sello_token_ref in their protected header. 3. For each returned envelope, the owner verifies that its sello_log_url matches the log that returned it. 4. The owner verifies the Merkle inclusion proof against the witnessed log root. 5. The owner resolves the signing service via the identity registry using kid from the protected header, obtaining the service’s public key. 6. The owner verifies the COSE_Sign1 signature against that public key. 7. The owner decrypts the HPKE payload using their HPKE private key, with the protected header as additional authenticated data. 8. The owner inspects the decrypted receipt body. A receipt is valid only if all of steps 3 through 7 succeed. 

4.4 Service identity and revocation 

Sello v0.1 specifies a JSON-file identity registry mapping kid to (service_identifier, public_key) . The registry is signed by a trust root operator and served at a stable URL. Owners cache the registry with a freshness bound of 24 hours. Rotation is additive: new keys get new kid s; old kid s remain valid for verifying receipts signed before rotation. Revocation uses a sibling revoked table mapping each revoked kid to a revoked_at timestamp. 

Receipts are rejected if their kid appears in revoked AND the transparency log’s inte-grated time for that receipt is at or later than revoked_at . Receipts whose integrated time precedes revoked_at remain verifiable, preserving the historical record for routine key rotation. The use of the transparency log’s integrated time , the timestamp the log itself assigns to the witnessed entry, rather than the service’s self-asserted timestamp in the receipt body is deliberate. A compromised service can backdate its timestamp field arbitrarily; it cannot backdate when the log integrated the entry. We propose this as a separately defensible novelty: tying revocation decisions to log-integrated time rather than signer-asserted time is, to our knowledge, not present in current transparency-log deployments or AI agent receipt protocols. The JSON-file registry is a v0.1 stopgap, not a production identity solution. Section 8 discusses paths forward. 10 5 Security Analysis 

We analyze Sello’s properties under the adversary model from Section 3.2. The analysis is informal but tied to specific protocol mechanisms. 

5.1 Integrity of recorded actions Claim: A receipt signed by a legitimate service’s key cannot be modified without detection. 

Argument: The COSE_Sign1 signature covers the entire envelope including the protected header and the HPKE-encrypted payload. Any modification of the protected header, the payload, or the signature itself invalidates the signature. Verification against the service’s public key (resolved via the registry by kid ) will fail. This property relies on the unforgeability of Ed25519 under the standard EUF-CMA assumption, which is well-established [Bernstein et al., 2012]. 

5.2 Confidentiality of receipt contents Claim: A passive observer of the transparency log cannot read receipt contents. 

Argument: Receipt contents are HPKE-sealed to the owner’s X25519 public key. HPKE single-shot encryption provides IND-CCA2 security under the standard X25519 and ChaCha20-Poly1305 assumptions [Barnes et al., 2022]. The encapsulated key and ciphertext together reveal nothing about the plaintext without possession of the owner’s private key. The protected header is not encrypted and does reveal metadata: the kid (which service signed), the sello_token_ref (the token-derived identifier the agent presented), and the sello_log_url . We address this metadata leakage in Section 8. 

5.3 Independence of attestation Claim: An adversary that compromises the agent or controls the operator cannot forge receipts. 

Argument: Receipt validity requires a signature by a service’s private Ed25519 key. By the adversary model, the adversary does not possess service signing keys. The adversary can submit arbitrary bytes to the log, but those bytes will fail signature verification at step 6 of the owner’s verification flow and be rejected. Forgery requires the additional step of compromising at least one service’s signing key, which is a structurally harder attack than compromising the agent. If a service’s key is compromised, the adversary can forge receipts signed by that key. The integrated-time revocation rule (Section 4.4) bounds the damage to receipts whose log integrated time falls between the compromise and the published revoked_at . Receipts predating the compromise remain trustworthy; receipts after revoked_at are rejected. This is weaker than perfect forward security but is the best we can do without per-call key rotation, which has its own costs. 

5.4 Tamper-evidence of the receipt set Claim: Removal or modification of a logged receipt is detectable. 11 Argument: The Merkle log structure ensures that any change to a previously logged entry alters the Merkle root. Witness cosigning ensures the root cannot be silently rewritten by the log operator. The owner verifies inclusion proofs against the witnessed root. This is a cryptographic guarantee, but it is a per-receipt guarantee, not a set-completeness guarantee. Tamper-evidence applies to receipts that are queried and returned ; it does not apply to receipts that the log operator chooses not to return. We treat this distinction as important enough to discuss separately, in Section 6. 

5.5 Known attacks Sello does not prevent Suppression attack. The most fundamental limitation. If the agent simply does not call any services, no receipts are produced. The owner sees an empty log and cannot distinguish “agent did nothing” from “agent did things off-network.” Missing receipts are at best an indirect signal of misbehavior. We sketch a possible mitigation in Section 8 (mandatory heartbeat receipts from a designated anchor set) but do not solve it in v0.1. 

Service collusion. If a service colludes with the agent operator to emit false receipts, Sello cannot detect this from a single receipt. The mitigation is plurality: if a real action involved calls to multiple services, only the genuine action has receipts from all of them. A receipt purporting to record an action that no other involved service witnessed is at minimum suspicious. We do not formalize this mitigation; it is a defense-in-depth, not a cryptographic guarantee. 

Service replay. A service holding its own signing key can re-emit a previously observed event by re-encrypting and re-signing it, producing a new envelope that passes verification but represents activity that did not occur. HPKE single-shot uses fresh randomness per call, so the new envelope is not byte-identical to the original. We specify an owner-side deduplication rule based on the tuple (kid, sello_token_ref, timestamp-truncated-to-seconds, action-type, action-input-hash, action-output-hash) ; receipts sharing this tuple are treated as a single logical event. Replays at higher temporal resolution than seconds are not caught by this rule but are flagged as anomalous. 

Token reference enumeration. The sello_token_ref is a deterministic hash of the authoriza-tion token. Anyone who holds the token can compute the same hash and query the log for all receipts associated with it. Authorization tokens used with Sello must contain at least 128 bits of unpredictable entropy. We discuss PIR-based mitigations in Section 8. 

Owner key loss. If the owner loses their HPKE private key, all past receipts become permanently undecryptable. Key escrow and recovery are out of scope for v0.1. 

## 6 Completeness and Retrieval 

The security analysis in Section 5 establishes per-receipt cryptographic guarantees: a returned receipt is unforgeable, its contents are confidential, its tamper is detectable. These are necessary 12 properties for a verifiable record, but they are not sufficient for what an owner actually wants, which is the complete set of receipts associated with a particular agent action or a particular time window. We treat the gap between per-receipt verifiability and set-completeness as a distinct concern from cryptographic security and discuss it here. 

The retrieval gap. An inclusion proof answers “is this receipt in the log?” It does not answer “did the log return every matching receipt?” A log operator (or a metadata indexer in front of the log) that returns ten receipts when twenty exist passes every cryptographic check on each of the ten while withholding the other ten. The owner sees a verifiable set; the owner does not see that the set is incomplete. This matters for Sello in particular because owner-side discovery uses sello_token_ref as the lookup key (Section 4.3). The owner asks the log “give me all receipts with this token reference.” A passive observer cannot tell whether the returned set is complete or whether some receipts have been silently omitted. The receipts that are returned remain verifiable. The receipts that are missing are missing. 

Sources of incompleteness. There are three distinct failure modes. The first is operator omission: the log operator or metadata indexer chooses, accidentally or adversarially, not to return a matching entry. The second is index incompleteness: the log’s underlying Merkle structure contains the entry, but the auxiliary metadata index used to satisfy queries does not. Sigstore Rekor, for instance, supports queries against indexed fields but does not index arbitrary COSE protected-header values, so queries on sello_token_ref may not be natively supported by Rekor v0 without additional infrastructure. The third is owner-side query failure: the owner queries one log when receipts exist in another, missing them entirely. 

What completeness requires. Production deployments that need completeness guarantees have three options. First, authenticated query results : the log can sign a response of the form “these are the entries matching this query, and the matching set is exhaustive as of log tree size N.” The SCITT working group’s SCRAPI draft [Steele and Birkholz, 2026] points in this direction. Second, full log audit : the owner downloads the full log (or relevant subsets) and scans it locally, treating the log as a queryable database rather than asking the operator for filtered results. This is expensive but defeats operator omission entirely. Third, multi-log redundancy : receipts are submitted to multiple independent logs, and the owner queries all of them; a single dishonest log cannot suppress a receipt without colluding with every other log it was submitted to. 

What Sello v0.1 provides. The reference implementation includes a Rekor discovery adapter that explicitly documents itself as discovery-only, not completeness-proving. The published 

sello_log_url in the protected header tells the owner which log to query, but does not commit the log to returning exhaustive results. A future version of Sello may specify an authenticated query mechanism profiled against SCITT-SCRAPI; we do not solve it in v0.1. 

Position summary. Sello v0.1 provides strong per-receipt security and discovery-aided retrieval. It does not provide cryptographic set-completeness. Deployments where set-completeness matters (audit reconstruction, regulatory evidence) should plan for one of the three completeness mecha-13 nisms above. 

## 7 Evaluation 

We present first-party microbenchmarks of the cryptographic operations Sello performs, measured with the reference implementation against a local mock transparency log. The measurements establish steady-state per-receipt costs at the service and the owner. Network latency for submission to a hosted public log is discussed separately in §7.3 because it depends on the specific log operator’s deployment rather than on the Sello protocol itself. 

7.1 Methodology 

The reference implementation [Figuera, 2026] ships with a benchmark tool ( src/cli/bench.ts )that exercises the full receipt lifecycle. For each iteration the bench: (1) constructs a verified compact JWS authorization token, (2) creates a Sello receipt at the service side (HPKE seal of the CBOR-encoded receipt body to the owner’s X25519 public key, followed by COSE_Sign1 signing with the service’s Ed25519 private key), (3) submits the signed envelope to an in-process mock transparency log that returns an inclusion proof, and (4) performs full owner-side verification (proof verification, registry resolution, COSE_Sign1 signature verification, HPKE open, and receipt body validation). The mock log replaces network submission with deterministic in-process bookkeeping; this isolates the cryptographic costs from log-operator-specific network latency. Log submission latency to a hosted public log is discussed separately in §7.3. The cryptographic primitives are Node.js bindings to the system OpenSSL: X25519 key agreement and Ed25519 signing via node:crypto , ChaCha20-Poly1305 AEAD via createCipheriv , HKDF-SHA256 via createHmac , and SHA-256 via createHash . HPKE is implemented per RFC 9180 base mode with the suite specified in §2.1; the implementation is pinned to RFC 9180 Appendix A.2.1 test vectors and validated in the test suite. Measurements were taken on an Apple M2 (8 physical cores, arm64), 24 GB RAM, macOS 26.2 (Darwin kernel 25.2.0), Node v24.16.0 with V8 13.6.233.17 and OpenSSL 3.5.6, plugged into AC power. The repository state was pinned to commit 8b0da95 at the time of measurement. System thermal pressure was “Nominal” throughout the run (Apple Silicon does not expose absolute CPU die temperature through powermetrics ; thermal pressure is the first-party signal). The machine was a development laptop with 29 days of uptime and load averages of 6-10 during the run, represen-tative of a working environment rather than a dedicated benchmark host; production deployments on lightly loaded hardware should see equal or tighter tails. The bench prepends a 500-iteration warmup phase before any timed measurements to amortize JIT compilation and instruction-cache warmup, and invokes global.gc() once before warmup with the --expose-gc flag to start each run from a clean garbage-collection state. We attempted to disable Spotlight indexing for the measurement window via mdutil -a -i off but this did not take effect on macOS 26 (likely due to System Integrity Protection policy); indexing remained enabled 14 throughout. The tail-latency improvements over an earlier methodology iteration are therefore attributable to the warmup and GC controls rather than to Spotlight isolation. For each iteration count 𝑁 ∈ {10, 100, 1000} , we executed the bench multiple times (3 runs at N=10, 5 runs at N=100, 10 runs at N=1000), with a 3-second sleep between runs to allow thermal effects to settle. Per-receipt operations (receipt creation, single-receipt verification) record every individual iteration duration using performance.now() . From each run we compute the per-run median, p95, and p99 over the iteration samples. We then take the median across runs of each statistic to be robust to outliers. Batch verification is one timed event per run, so we report the median across runs of the per-run total and the per-run per-receipt average. 

7.2 Results 

The reference implementation produces fixed-size receipts independent of action input or output (which are referenced by SHA-256 hash, not included verbatim). Table 1 reports the wire-format sizes for the v0.1 envelope. 

Table 1: Wire-format sizes. 

Component Size CBOR-encoded receipt body 234 bytes COSE_Sign1 protected header 112 bytes HPKE payload (enc || ciphertext) 282 bytes Full COSE_Sign1 envelope 467 bytes Mock log proof (JSON) 253 bytes A complete Sello envelope on the wire is just under half a kilobyte; this is independent of action size because action inputs and outputs are referenced only by their SHA-256 digests inside the receipt body. Table 2 reports per-receipt cryptographic latency at three iteration counts. Each cell is the median across runs of the corresponding per-run statistic. 

Table 2: Per-receipt cryptographic latency (milliseconds). 

Operation N median (p50) p95 p99 Receipt creation (service) 10 0.496 0.741 0.770 Receipt creation (service) 100 0.471 1.016 2.243 Receipt creation (service) 1000 0.454 0.954 1.534 

15 Operation N median (p50) p95 p99 Verification, single (owner) 10 0.393 1.072 1.245 Verification, single (owner) 100 0.305 0.656 0.854 Verification, single (owner) 1000 0.281 0.573 1.034 

Verification, batch per receipt 10 0.316 n/a n/a Verification, batch per receipt 100 0.348 n/a n/a Verification, batch per receipt 1000 0.320 n/a n/a We treat the N=1000 row as steady-state and report it as the headline result: a Sello-aware service adds approximately 0.45 ms of median CPU work per agent call (HPKE seal of the receipt body, COSE_Sign1 signing, in-process log append), and an owner reconstructing activity does 

approximately 0.28 ms of median CPU work per receipt (Merkle proof verify, registry lookup, COSE_Sign1 verify, HPKE open, receipt body decode and validate). A service handling 1000 calls per second per process would spend approximately 0.45 seconds of CPU per second on Sello receipt creation. An owner reconstructing a day of activity from 100,000 receipts can do so in approximately 32 seconds of CPU time using batch verification. 

Variance and tail behavior. Across runs, the per-run median is tight: at N=1000, receipt creation medians range from 0.449 to 0.479 ms across ten runs (a 6.7% spread), and single-receipt verification medians range from 0.275 to 0.292 ms (a 6.2% spread). Tail latencies are also stable: across the ten N=1000 runs, all ten verify-one-receipt p99 values fell within 2x of the median p99, and nine of ten create-receipt p99 values fell within 2x of the median p99. The widest p99 observed for any single run was 3.073 ms for receipt creation and 1.487 ms for verification. Production deployments on dedicated hardware should see equal or tighter tails; the measurements here were taken on a working laptop with load averages of 6-10 during the run. 

Warmup effect. Even with a 500-iteration warmup, a residual warmup effect remains visible at low iteration counts: single-receipt verification drops from 0.393 ms median at N=10 to 0.281 ms at N=1000, a 29% reduction. This is consistent with V8 tiered compilation continuing to optimize hot code paths beyond the warmup window. The N=1000 numbers should be treated as steady-state; the N=10 numbers approximate the cold-start cost a process pays for its first few receipts. 

7.3 Log submission latency (not measured first-party) 

Submission of a signed envelope to a hosted public transparency log adds a network round-trip and, for batched log designs like Sigstore Rekor v2, additional time for batch integration. The v0.1 16 reference implementation does not measure log submission latency first-party because it depends on the specific log operator’s deployment characteristics rather than on the Sello protocol itself. In a production deployment, services should treat log submission as an asynchronous operation: the service can return the action response to the agent immediately and submit the receipt to the log in the background, optionally including the eventual inclusion proof in a subsequent receipt or an out-of-band channel. The protocol flow (§4.3) is compatible with this: the log-submission step is not on the critical path of the agent call. 

7.4 Comparison with adjacent systems 

We compare Sello against the seven adjacent receipt protocols surveyed in §2.2, scored against the four design properties P1-P4. 

Table 3: Property comparison against adjacent receipt protocols. 

System P1 P2 P3 P4 Agent Receipts no no no no Signet (v0.10) no partial no no Pipelock no no no no Agent Passport System no no no no draft-farley-acta no no no no draft-nivalto-agentroa no no yes no Attested Intelligence no no partial no 

Sello yes yes yes yes Notes: “no” indicates the property is not present. “partial” indicates a partial form of the prop-erty is present but does not meet the full design goal as specified in §3.3. Signet’s encryption is symmetric and reuses the signing identity, which is not the same as P2’s asymmetric encryption to an independent owner key. Attested Intelligence ships tamper-evident logging but the logs are point-to-point evidence bundles rather than public Merkle logs. 

## 8 Discussion 

8.1 Limitations Sello does not address in v0.1 

Three known limitations bear emphasizing because they shape what Sello is and isn’t useful for. 

Adoption-incentive problem. The most fundamental limitation. Sello requires services to choose to emit receipts. Services have no inherent incentive to do so, especially in v0.1 before any regulatory mandate exists. We discuss possible incentive structures in Section 8.3 but do not solve them. Sello is only useful if services adopt it; in 2026, that adoption is zero. 17 Suppression attack. Discussed in Section 5.5. The agent simply not calling services produces no receipts. We sketch a mandatory-heartbeat mitigation in Section 8.3 but do not specify it in v0.1. 

Server identity bootstrapping. The JSON-file registry signed by a trust root is a placeholder. Production deployments need either Sigstore-Fulcio-style OIDC keyless identities, DNS-based key publication (DNSSEC or DNS-over-HTTPS with key records), or a Certificate Transparency-style PKI for services. We expect convergence on a Sigstore-Fulcio approach but defer the choice to v0.2. 

8.2 Position relative to existing observability 

Sello is not a replacement for existing agent observability tools. Langfuse, LangSmith, and their peers tell the owner what the agent thought it was doing: the prompts, the reasoning traces, the tool selection logic. This is essential information for debugging agent behavior and understanding why an agent did what it did. Sello tells the owner what the world saw the agent do. The two views are complementary. Mature deployments will want both. Sello receipts can serve as ground truth against which agent self-reports are checked; divergence between self-report and witnessed receipts is itself a high-signal anomaly. We discuss this divergence-detection use case in Section 8.3 as a future extension. 

8.3 Future extensions 

We sketch four extensions that build on the v0.1 protocol. None are implemented; we present them as future-work directions and as illustrations of the design space the protocol opens. 

Regulator-as-second-recipient. HPKE supports multi-recipient sealing via COSE_Encrypt. A receipt could be sealed to two public keys: the owner’s, and a regulator’s published HPKE pubkey listed in a jurisdiction-bound registry (e.g., an EU AI Act Article 26 deployer-registry entry). The regulator could decrypt during an audit without the owner’s cooperation, but only with their specific key. This would make Sello a natural compliance primitive for high-risk AI systems under the EU AI Act [EU AI Act]. We have not seen this mechanism in any existing protocol. 

Suppression detection via mandatory heartbeat receipts. A subset of services designated as an “anchor set” in the agent’s authorization token could be required to emit heartbeat receipts every 𝑁 seconds whether or not the agent called them. Missing heartbeats during a session window would constitute positive evidence of suppression. The hard part is making heartbeats themselves non-suppressible (the operator can drop heartbeat traffic); we propose layered direct-to-owner heartbeats as a partial fix. We are not aware of any agent protocol that addresses suppression cryptographically. 

Inverse observability: divergence detection. Combine Sello receipts with agent-emitted ob-servability traces (Langfuse, LangSmith, etc.) and detect divergence between the two. If the agent’s self-reported trace claims a call that no receipt witnesses, either the agent is lying or the service is colluding. The Verifiability-First paper [Gupta, 2025] proposes a related concept using a secondary “Audit Agent” but does not ground it in cryptographic witnessing. Sello receipts could provide 18 exactly that grounding. 

Private information retrieval. The sello_token_ref enumeration attack (Section 5.5) could be mitigated by Private Information Retrieval over the log. PIR over Certificate Transparency logs has been studied [Kales et al., 2019]; applying the same techniques to Sello is straightforward but adds significant cost. A PIR mode in v0.2 would be appropriate for high-privacy deployments. 

8.4 The adoption-incentive question 

We close with the most honest question. Why would any service emit Sello receipts? In 2026, the answer is “they wouldn’t.” There is no regulatory mandate, no commercial pressure, no end-user demand. Three incentive structures could change this: 1. Regulatory mandate. EU AI Act Article 12 requires automatic logging for high-risk AI systems; Article 26 places six-month retention obligations on deployers. Sello is a natural primitive for satisfying these obligations cryptographically. If the EU Commission or a similar body specifies a receipt format, Sello (or something like it) becomes mandatory and adoption follows. 2. Agent-commerce settlement coupling. Agent payment protocols (Stripe Machine Pay-ments, Skyfire KYAPay, the Cloudflare/Stripe agent commerce protocol) are emerging in 2026. If receipt emission is coupled to settlement, so that services that emit receipts settle and services that don’t, don’t, adoption is automatic. This is a market design problem more than a protocol design problem. 3. Trust premium. Services that emit receipts may command higher trust and therefore higher prices in agent-mediated marketplaces. This requires owners to value receipts enough to pay for them, which requires educated users; bootstrapping is slow but possible. We do not solve the incentive problem in this paper. We note that all three paths require Sello (or an equivalent protocol) to exist first. The protocol is the precondition; the incentive structure is the next problem. 

## 9 Conclusion 

AI agent observability is structurally compromised when the agent is the source of truth for its own behavior. The fix is the same architectural inversion humans have used since 3000 BCE: the party recording an event should be independent of the party being recorded. Sello applies this inversion to AI agent actions through four combined properties: receiver-side sign-ing by the called service, HPKE encryption to an owner public key bound to the authorization to-ken, publication to a witness-cosigned Merkle log, and owner-side discovery by token reference. The combination is novel to our knowledge; no surveyed system combines all four. The cryptographic 19 primitives are standard (COSE_Sign1, HPKE, Ed25519, transparency logs). The contribution is the architectural composition and the JWS owner-key binding that makes it work. We have been explicit about what Sello does not solve: the suppression attack, service collusion, the adoption-incentive problem. The sketched extensions (regulator-recipient mode, heartbeat-based suppression detection, inverse observability for trace verification) are not required for v0.1 to be useful, and we have not built them. The protocol and reference implementation are published at https://sello.build under CC BY 4.0. Review, adversarial testing, and pull requests are welcome. Where alignment is natural with adja-cent projects (Signet, the SCITT working group, AgentROA), we’ll seek collaboration. The archi-tecture matters more than which project ships it first; what matters is that AI agent observability stops trusting the agent to be its own witness. The agent is not the right narrator of its own actions. The services it touches are. 

## Acknowledgments 

This work benefited from public writing by William Hou (Signet), Tymofii Pidlisnyi (APS), Otto Jongerius (Agent Receipts), Joseph Michalak (AgentROA), and Jing Zhang (Right to History). Any errors are mine. 

# References 

Attested Intelligence Holdings LLC. Attested Governance Artifacts: Public Comment on Docket NIST-2025-0035, March 2026. R. Barnes, K. Bhargavan, B. Lipp, and C. Wood. Hybrid Public Key Encryption. RFC 9180, IETF, February 2022. A. Basu. Tool Receipts, Not Zero-Knowledge Proofs: Practical Hallucination Detection for AI Agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.10060 , March 2026. D. J. Bernstein, N. Duif, T. Lange, P. Schwabe, and B. Yang. High-speed high-security signatures. 

Journal of Cryptographic Engineering , 2(2), 2012. H. Birkholz, C. Vigano, and C. Bormann. Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL): A Nota-tional Convention to Express Concise Binary Object Representation (CBOR) and JSON Data Structures. RFC 8610, IETF, June 2019. H. Birkholz, A. Delignat-Lavaud, C. Fournet, Y. Deshpande, and S. Lasker. An Architecture for Trustworthy and Transparent Digital Supply Chains. Internet-Draft draft-ietf-scitt-architecture, IETF, 2026. 20 Stephen Casper, Carson Ezell, Charlotte Siegmann, Noam Kolt, Taylor Lynn Curtis, Benjamin Bucknall, Andreas Haupt, Kevin Wei, Jérémy Scheurer, Marius Hobbhahn, Lee Sharkey, Satyapriya Krishna, Marvin Von Hagen, Silas Alberti, Alan Chan, Qinyi Sun, Michael Gerovitch, David Bau, Max Tegmark, David Krueger, and Dylan Hadfield-Menell. Black-box Access is Insufficient for Rigorous AI Audits. In Proceedings of the 2024 ACM Conference on Fairness, Accountability, and Transparency (FAccT) , pages 2254–2272, 2024. A. Delignat-Lavaud et al. SCITT Receipts: CCF Profile. Internet-Draft draft-ietf-scitt-receipts-ccf-profile, IETF, 2026. EU AI Act. Regulation (EU) 2024/1689 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down harmonised rules on artificial intelligence (Artificial Intelligence Act), July 2024. T. Farley. Signed Decision Receipts for Machine-to-Machine Access Control. Internet-Draft draft-farley-acta-signed-receipts, IETF, 2026. D. Fett, B. Campbell, J. Bradley, T. Lodderstedt, M. Jones, and D. Waite. OAuth 2.0 Demon-strating Proof of Possession (DPoP). RFC 9449, IETF, September 2023. J. Figuera. Sello: A protocol for receiver-attested confidential receipts for AI agent actions. Refer-ence implementation, https://github.com/juanfiguera/sello, 2026. A. Gupta. Verifiability-First Agents: Provable Observability and Lightweight Audit Agents for Controlling Autonomous LLM Systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2512.17259 , December 2025. A. Heinrich, M. Stute, T. Kornhuber, and M. Hollick. Who Can Find My Devices? Security and Privacy of Apple’s Crowd-Sourced Bluetooth Location Tracking System. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies , 2021(3):227–245, 2021. W. Hou. Signet: Cryptographic Action Receipts for AI Agents. https://github.com/Prismer-AI/signet, 2025–2026. M. Jones, J. Bradley, and N. Sakimura. Json web signature (jws). RFC 7515, IETF, May 2015. O. Jongerius. Agent Receipts. https://agentreceipts.ai, 2025–2026. D. Kales, O. Omolola, and S. Ramacher. Revisiting User Privacy for Certificate Transparency. In 

IEEE European Symposium on Security and Privacy , 2019. S. Kamimura. SCITT Profile for Financial Trading Audit Trails. Internet-Draft draft-kamimura-scitt-vcp, IETF, 2026. B. Laurie, A. Langley, and E. Kasper. Certificate transparency. RFC 6962, IETF, June 2013. B. Laurie, E. Messeri, and R. Stradling. Certificate transparency version 2.0. RFC 9162, IETF, December 2021. J. Michalak. Agent Route Origin Authorization (AgentROA): A Cryptographic Policy Enforce-ment Framework for AI Agent Actions. Internet-Draft draft-nivalto-agentroa-route-authorization, IETF, 2026. 21 T. Pidlisnyi. Agent Passport System. https://github.com/aeoess/agent-passport-system, 2025– 2026. PipeLab. Pipelock: AI Agent Security Gateway. https://pipelab.org, 2026. J. Schaad. CBOR Object Signing and Encryption (COSE): Structures and Process. RFC 9052, IETF, August 2022. O. Steele and H. Birkholz. SCITT Reference APIs. Internet-Draft draft-ietf-scitt-scrapi, IETF, 2026. E. Syta, I. Tamas, D. Visher, D. I. Wolinsky, P. Jovanovic, L. Gasser, N. Gailly, I. Khoffi, and B. Ford. Keeping Authorities ‘Honest or Bust’ with Decentralized Witness Cosigning. In IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy , pages 526–545, 2016. The Sigstore Authors. Rekor: Software Supply Chain Transparency Log. https://github.com/sig store/rekor, 2024. J. Zhang. Right to History: A Sovereignty Kernel for Verifiable AI Agent Execution. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.20214 , February 2026. 22