Title: The Perils of Agency: How Developers Perceive, Prioritize, and Address Risks in Agentic AI Products

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.15485v1

Published Time: Tue, 16 Jun 2026 00:52:46 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# The Perils of Agency: How Developers Perceive, Prioritize, and Address Risks in Agentic AI Products 

Hao-Ping (Hank) Lee 1, Jessica He 2, David Piorkowski 3, Thomas Serban von Davier 1, Jodi Forlizzi 1, Sauvik Das 1

> 1

Carnegie Mellon University 

> 2

IBM Research 

> 3

Alinia 

Abstract 

Agentic AI systems act autonomously, use tools, adapt to con-text, and operate in complex real-world environments. How-ever, these same characteristics can create or exacerbate prod-uct risks. We studied how industry developers (n=35) per-ceive, prioritize, and address the risks in their agentic AI products. We found that developers’ perceptions of risk were closely tied to the qualities that made the product agentic, such as autonomy, tool use, and usage in a real-world con-text. Developers prioritized product and business risks before considering downstream societal risks like job displacement and end-user privacy. This prioritization also impacted de-velopers’ ability and motivation to mitigate agentic risks. Fi-nally, developers lacked mature controls for containing agen-tic risks, often relying on constraining the same characteris-tics that make agents useful: e.g., autonomy and goal com-plexity. These findings reveal a capability vs. risk control ten-sion in agentic AI development: developers need to address risks that emerge from agentic capabilities, yet they currently have limited support for doing so without constraining agen-tic functionality. 

Introduction 

Across academia, industry, and government, AI agents are framed as a new paradigm for software systems and tech-nology governance because they can act autonomously with limited oversight, interact with and affect their environ-ments, and operate across diverse roles, contexts, and tasks (Kasirzadeh and Gabriel 2025; Chan et al. 2023). These same capabilities also create new and exacerbate known risks of generative AI systems: e.g., agents can violate poli-cies or take unauthorized actions (Hart 2026a), misuse tools or environment resources that leak sensitive information or damage connected systems (Roth 2026), and make actions harder to monitor and hold accountable (Hart 2026b). Yet, despite the growing excitement and concern around agentic AI, we know little about how developers who build user-facing agentic AI products perceive these emergent risks, decide which risks to prioritize, and implement con-trols to mitigate these risks. Understanding these points is essential because while emerging governance frameworks for agentic AI call for centering principles like meaningful human control, accountability, and monitoring (Infocomm Media Development Authority 2026; World Economic Fo-rum and Capgemini 2025), prior work has documented a substantial “gap between principle and practice” in devel-oping human-centered and responsible AI (Winfield and Jirotka 2018; Shneiderman 2020). To unpack how developers perceive, prioritize, and miti-gate agentic AI risks, we draw on the Security and Privacy Acceptance Framework (SPAF). SPAF was originally devel-oped to explain end-users’ adoption of security and privacy best practices (Das et al. 2022), and recent work has adapted its three barriers— awareness of harms, motivation to act, and ability to address the harms—to study how practition-ers incorporate human-centered principles into AI product development (Lee et al. 2024a). We use SPAF in a similar, developer-oriented way in the context of agentic AI product development. Specifically, we ask three research questions: 

RQ1 To what extent does agentic AI shape developers’ per-ceived risks of their products? (Awareness) 

RQ2 How do developers prioritize addressing emergent agen-tic AI risks of their products? (Motivation) 

RQ3 What constitutes addressing agentic AI risks for devel-opers, and what affects their ability to do so? (Ability) To answer these questions, we conducted semi-structured interviews with N = 35 developers from different product teams at an international software company. All participants had engaged in addressing agentic AI risks for their user-facing agentic AI products in some capacity. In line with the recent agentic AI literature, we define agentic AI products as products that employ foundation models (e.g., LLMs or large multimodal models) with access to tools (e.g., APIs, external services, computational resources), and have au-tonomy to act in an environment based on set goals, decide which actions to perform , and execute multi-step actions to pursue goals for end users (Pan et al. 2026; Kasirzadeh and Gabriel 2025; Wang et al. 2024a; Acharya, Kuppan, and Di-vya 2025; Miehling et al. 2025). We found that developers focused more on risks that were directly proximate to product objectives for their AI agents (e.g., risks related to reliability and performance) and less on broader downstream risks (e.g., risks related to job dis-placement or privacy). Developers were particularly aware of risks related to agent policy violations, compounding failures, or unclear action accountability ( RQ1 ). Develop-ers prioritized mitigating risks through an implicit model of business success: risks became more actionable when 

> arXiv:2606.15485v1 [cs.CY] 13 Jun 2026

they threatened agent performance, user adoption, produc-tion safety, or client needs. Conversely, developers were more hesitant about mitigations that introduced opportu-nity costs, reduced product value, conflicted with develop-ment timelines, or fell outside of their perceived responsi-bilities ( RQ2 ). Developers implemented a range of mitiga-tion strategies and controls, such as human oversight, action constraints, access control, validation, and data sanitization. Yet these controls often constrained the same properties that made the systems agentic in the first place: autonomy, adapt-ability, goal complexity, and environment complexity. De-velopers also lacked reliable assessment methods to evaluate whether these mitigations were effective ( RQ3 ). In sum, our findings reveal a central tension in agentic AI product de-velopment: industry efforts to make products more agentic 

create new risks, which developers then attempt to mitigate by making products less agentic .Our work makes the following contributions: • We provide an empirical account of how developers per-ceive, prioritize, and mitigate risks entailed by agentic AI products. • We show how developers’ risk awareness is shaped by product-proximate agentic AI functionality, what moti-vates and inhibits risk mitigation work, and what affects developers’ ability to implement risk controls. • We extend the human-centered AI (HAI) literature on the principle-practice gap by showing how this gap manifests in agentic AI product development, where risk mitigation often requires developers to constrain the same agentic characteristics that make these products valuable. 

Related Work 

Agentic AI Risks Researchers have begun developing conceptual frameworks and governance approaches to sys-tematically characterize and manage agentic AI risks, which are generally framed as extensions of existing generative AI risks (Gan et al. 2026; Chang and Razi 2026; Steenstra and Bickmore 2025; Li et al. 2026; Madkour et al. 2026; Bel-log´ ın et al. 2025; Gangavarapu 2025). However, the frame-works differ in emphasis and scope, ranging from threat-actor taxonomies (Gan et al. 2026), to bias propagation aris-ing from multi-stage workflows, (Condon and Jilani 2026), to domain-specific perspectives, risks to youth (Chang and Razi 2026), or risks from psychotherapy agents (Steenstra and Bickmore 2025). Governance-oriented approaches in-clude mapping user-reported chatbot and agent risks to the NIST AI Risk Management Framework (Li et al. 2026), doc-umenting agentic AI standards profile for practitioners and policymakers (Madkour et al. 2026), and developing recom-mendations on systemic agentic AI risks for the EU AI Act (Bellog´ ın et al. 2025). Among these efforts, the AI Risk At-las (Bagehorn et al. 2025) is distinctive in integrating risks from multiple frameworks into a unified knowledge graph that connects risk categories, governance frameworks, and mitigation strategies. Although these studies provide valuable conceptualiza-tions of agentic AI risk, they primarily reflect top-down per-spectives derived from governance frameworks, expert anal-yses, and taxonomies. Instead, our work centers on prac-titioners’ lived experiences in identifying, prioritizing, and mitigating agentic AI risks in practice. 

Risk Mitigation Tools and Their Barriers Prior work in systems engineering, responsible AI, and security and privacy (S&P) proposes mechanisms for creating trustwor-thy AI systems by centering transparency and explainabil-ity (Thiebes, Lins, and Sunyaev 2021; Floridi et al. 2018) and assigning accountability across the AI development life-cycle (Li et al. 2023; Kenthapadi, Lakkaraju, and Rajani 2023). For example, organizational tools such as RACI (Re-sponsible, Accountable, Consulted, and Informed) matrices specify ownership over training data, model tuning, deploy-ment, and monitoring processes (e.g., (Glaser and Littlebury 2024)). Similarly, documentation artifacts, including model cards, system cards, and datasheets for datasets, institution-alize transparency and traceability throughout development and deployment (Mitchell et al. 2019; Gebru et al. 2021). Governing bodies have worked to codify these best prac-tices through standards and regulations, including the EU AI Act, NIST AI Risk Management Framework (AI RMF), and ISO/IEC standards (e.g., ISO/IEC 42001 for AI man-agement systems). Yet, studies of AI practitioners continue to report confu-sion about which governance frameworks apply in differ-ent contexts and challenges with integration into daily work (Lee et al. 2024a). Related work on S&P practices identifies persistent misconceptions, knowledge gaps, and implemen-tation burdens that hinder adoption of recommended safe-guards (Li, Agarwal, and Hong 2018; Li et al. 2022). Lee et al. (2024a) applied the SPAF framework (Das et al. 2022) to examine barriers preventing AI practitioners from adopting S&P best practices in product development, showing how organizational and workflow constraints shape how devel-opers prioritize and implement risk-mitigation measures. We examine how developers operationalize governance practices when building agentic AI systems . As recent work highlights, increasing the capabilities of AI-embedded sys-tems, and the requirements therein, can expand the scope and severity of associated risks (Lee et al. 2024b; Ehsan et al. 2026). This challenge is particularly salient for agentic AI systems, which are being widely integrated and marketed into consumer products (Pan et al. 2026; Shome, Krishnan, and Das 2026), and whose capabilities are expanded through tool use, external resources, memory, and autonomous ac-tion (Wang et al. 2024a). We aim to better understand which agentic risks are emerging and prioritized in practice, and how developers seek to address them. 

Method 

We conducted semi-structured interviews with 35 develop-ers at an international software company who had direct ex-perience working on user-facing agentic AI products. This format allowed us to ask consistent questions across partic-ipants while also probing product-specific experiences with perceiving, prioritizing, and addressing risks. 

Pre-Study Questionnaire To ground each interview in participants’ real product contexts, we first asked partici-self-correction  

> output
> validation
> re-planning
> and retry
> underlying
> LLM
> hallucination
> agent
> planning
> error
> Unexplainable
> and untraceable
> actions
> unexpected
> system
> states (e.g.,
> files deleted)
> "invisible"
> agent
> actions
> guard rails
> system
> monitoring
> agent
> explainability
> mechanisms
> Causes Preventive
> Controls
> Protective
> Controls
> Consequences
> Risk

Figure 1: Example of a completed bow-tie analysis. For one agentic AI risk they had attempted to mitigate, participants identi-fied causes, consequences, preventive controls for reducing causes, and protective controls for reducing consequences. pants to complete a pre-study questionnaire. The question-naire covered three areas. First, participants described the user-facing agentic AI product they worked on. Second, they selected three human-centered AI (HAI) principles from a list that we adapted from prior studies (Sanderson et al. 2023; Pant et al. 2024) 1 that they considered most concern-ing for their product. Third, for each selected principle, par-ticipants rated the relevance of associated agentic AI risks to their product. We manually mapped agentic AI-specific risks identified in the AI Risk Atlas (Bagehorn et al. 2025) to each HAI principle. The full list of agentic AI risks and their associated principles is provided in the Appendix. The selected HAI principles helped prompt discussion of salient risks for RQ1 . For RQ2 , we randomly selected five risks from those the participant rated as relevant and used them to create a product-specific risk-ranking activity in Mu-ral 2; an example is shown in the Appendix. 

Semi-structured Interviews All interviews were con-ducted remotely by the first author and lasted approximately 60 minutes. At the beginning of each session, we explained the study purpose and obtained verbal consent for partici-pation and recording. Participants were informed that they could stop the interview or withdraw consent at any time, and that recordings would be de-identified for analysis. Each interview began with participants introducing their agentic AI product. Then, building on and extending the SPAF (Das et al. 2022), we organized the interview around our three research questions on how agentic AI shaped developers’ awareness (RQ1), motivation (RQ2), and ability (RQ3) to address product risks. To address RQ1 , we used the three HAI principles par-ticipants selected in the pre-study questionnaire as prompts. For each principle, we asked participants to recall a recent product discussion about a related risk, how they defined and scoped those risks, and to what extent those risks related to their agentic AI product development and considerations. To address RQ2 , participants ranked five product-relevant agentic AI risks selected from their questionnaire responses using a Mural-based ranking board. We asked participants 

> 1

The principles included Privacy Protection and Security , Reli-ability and Safety , Transparency and Explainability , Fairness , Per-formance and Testing , Accountability , Human-centered Values , and 

Human, Social and Environmental Wellbeing .

> 2

https://app.mural.co/ 

to explain their ranking and the factors that made some risks more or less important to address. We analyzed these re-sponses to identify factors shaping risk prioritization in user-facing agentic AI product development. To address RQ3 , participants completed a bow-tie analy-sis in Mural for one agentic AI risk their team had attempted to mitigate (Koessler and Schuett 2023) (Figure 1). Partici-pants first placed the risk at the center of the diagram. They then identified potential causes of the risk (e.g., agent er-rors, tool failures, unexpected user behavior), followed by 

preventive controls intended to address those causes. Next, they identified possible consequences (e.g., incorrect out-puts, security incidents, loss of user trust), followed by pro-tective controls intended to reduce those consequences. In our analysis, we focused on participants’ controls: the ac-tions, tools, artifacts, and processes they used to mitigate the causes or consequences of agentic AI risks, as well as the challenges involved in applying those controls. This allowed us to examine how developers operationalized risk mitiga-tion in practice. The full interview protocol is included in the Appendix. 

Recruitment and Participants We recruited developers, who had experience developing and deploying user-facing agentic AI products and addressing risks in that process, from an international software company at which three members of the research team were employed. Human-subject research within this institution is reviewed by an in-ternal committee, and this study received approval subject to restrictions on demographic data collection. We were not permitted to collect participants’ age, gender identity, or per-sonally identifiable information. Participants were compen-sated with a gift card equivalent to $25 USD. In total, we recruited 35 developers from different product teams across the company. Participants worked on agentic AI products across a range of domains 3, most commonly Customer Support (n=7), Information Technology (n=7), and Corporate Services (n=6). 

Data Analysis All interviews were audio-recorded and transcribed. We conducted an iterative open-coding process (Corbin and Strauss 2008) aligned with our three research questions. The first author initially coded ten interview tran-scripts and developed a preliminary codebook through on-

> 3

Participant information is included in the Appendix. Developers attuned to product-proximate risks tied to agentic utility                         

> and deployment requirements. Less attuned to downstream risks.
> •Risks from agentic AI characteristics: policy violation, attack on resources,
> model inaccuracy, reproducibility
> •Risks from deployment requirements: compounding errors and latency,
> unauthorized use, sharing sensitive information, action accountability and
> traceability
> RQ2 How do developers prioritize addressing emergent agentic AI risks?
> RQ1 To what extent does agentic AI shape developers' perceived risks ?
> Developers prioritized mitigating risks through an implicit model of
> business success .
> •Forecasted consequence severity: agent task quality, production failures,
> user adoption, regulatory compliance, alignment with business objectives
> •Perceived readiness for mitigation: perceived agent robustness, perceived
> difficulty of mitigation
> RQ3 What constitutes addressing agentic AI risks for developers, and
> what affects their ability to do so?
> Developers implemented a range of mitigation strategies that also
> made their products less agentic .
> •Strategies: constrain agentic characteristics, reduce agentic errors,
> strengthen agentic security, prevent human-agent interaction errors
> •Challenges: lack of risk assessment resources, lack of mature risk controls

Figure 2: We answer our research questions by showing how agentic AI shaped developers’ awareness (RQ1), motivation (RQ2), and ability (RQ3) to address product risks. going discussion with two other authors. After the initial codebook was established, two additional authors joined the coding process and were trained on the codebook. The three coders then divided the remaining transcripts and coded them individually, meeting regularly to discuss codes and emerging themes. They also reviewed one another’s coded excerpts to promote consistency and resolved disagreements through discussion. Throughout the analysis process, all au-thors met regularly to refine emerging themes. We organized our findings around the three SPAF-grounded research questions (Das et al. 2022) (Figure 2) and report how frequently participants discussed each theme. 

RQ1: How Agentic AI Shapes Developers’ Perceptions of Product Risks 

Following the SPAF (Das et al. 2022), we first examined the extent to which agentic AI shapes risk awareness . We first analyzed what participants considered to be the most concerning risks in developing user-facing agentic AI prod-ucts. 4 We then examined if and how these risks were shaped by the agentic nature of their product. We found that participants were generally attuned to risks tied to two dimensions: agentic AI characteristics and the re-quirements of real-world deployment (Figure 2). At the same time, developers’ awareness remained bounded by individ-ual judgment, prior experience with non-agentic AI systems, and locally available organizational knowledge. Thus, they 

> 4

Using the AI Risk Atlas (Bagehorn et al. 2025) as a baseline to categorize participants’ concerns, we identified a total of ten agen-tic AI risks. Among these ten risks, three of them are not fully cap-tured by the atlas, including agent policy violation, compounding errors, and compounding latency. 

were less attuned to broader, downstream risks that are less proximate to agent utility or deployment. 

Agentic AI Characteristics Led to New Risks 

Developers shared that the characteristics of agentic AI— autonomy, environment complexity, goal complexity, and adaptability—either introduced agentic-specific risks or cre-ated agentic-specific instantiations of known AI risks. 

Agent autonomy enabled agent policy violation risks. 

Developers built AI agents that achieve goals with limited human intervention or supervision (Kasirzadeh and Gabriel 2025; Acharya, Kuppan, and Divya 2025), typically rely-ing on prompt-based “agent policies” to define what agents should or should not do, such as enforcing user permissions or restricting information sharing with third-party tools. Yet the same autonomy that made agents useful also raised con-cerns about failure to comply with predefined action poli-cies. One key risk participants flagged was agent policy vi-olation (8/35) with limited oversight over agents’ reason-ing and actions, especially when agents could bypass access policies or other organizational constraints. For example, P26 described the central risk of their agent as the possibil-ity that “[agentic] rules can be violated... So the constraints [to the agent] are not really constraints.” 

Environment complexity exposed agent resources to at-tacks. Developers built AI agents that can act in com-plex and connected environments to achieve their goals (Kasirzadeh and Gabriel 2025; Acharya, Kuppan, and Di-vya 2025). Agentic AI products are integrated with inter-nal or third-party APIs, platforms, tools, and data sources. Because of this integration, agents introduced new attack vectors into environmental resources (10/35) . Develop-ers worried that agents could misuse external tools, perform harmful actions that unintentionally modify or damage re-sources in their environment. P2’s IT agent, for instance, was flagged by the cybersecurity team for “trying to find and delete [their] root folder.” 

Agent goal complexity exacerbated model accuracy risks. Developers also built AI agents to achieve a wide range of goals (Kasirzadeh and Gabriel 2025; Acharya, Kup-pan, and Divya 2025). As participants assigned agents more complex tasks, they found it harder to ensure reliable task success. Because all participants’ agents were powered by generative AI, participants described how agents exacer-bated issues with model inaccuracy (19/35) : errors com-pound over multi-turn autonomous execution. For example, P35 set a high minimum performance threshold for their IT agent to reduce errors cascading across turns: “if it goes be-low 80%, that means the agent is actively harming your sys-tem rather than helping your system.” 

Agent adaptability created new instantiations of re-producibility risks. Finally, developers built AI agents that adapt and react to novel or unexpected circumstances (Kasirzadeh and Gabriel 2025; Acharya, Kuppan, and Di-vya 2025). Participants valued agentic AI as an adaptable solution that could handle both expected and unexpected use cases. However, this adaptability introduced reproducibil-ity (8/35) risks — the difficulty of replicating agent behav-ior or output — stemming not only from model variability, but also from the agent’s ability to select different tools, ac-tions, and plans across similar situations. For example, P7 shifted from a structured key-word matching retrieval pro-cess to an agentic solution that constructed Jira Query Lan-guage from user inquiries “to make a more adaptable solu-tion,” , but noted that this came “at a cost of repeatability.” .

Agentic AI Requirements Increased Risks Related to Latency, Security, and Monitoring 

We also found that the requirements of developing and de-ploying agentic AI systems exacerbated concerns about per-formance, latency, security, accountability, and traceability. 

Layered agent architectures exacerbated compounding errors and latency. Participants often described their agentic systems as complex architectures composed of mul-tiple models, tools, agents, and orchestration layers. This complexity led developers to identify compounding errors (7/35) , wherein failures accumulate across agentic workflow components, requiring additional debugging or monitoring. Although errors in generative AI-powered systems are not new, participants perceived agentic architectures as increas-ing their intensity and frequency. As P25, who built a multi-agent system, put it, they: “have multiple agents, so multi-ple points of failure.” These layered architectures also ex-acerbated compounding latency (4/35) risks for some par-ticipants, as each added tool, retrieval step, or orchestration layer could increase response time. 

Agentic AI introduced and exacerbated security threats. 

Participants perceived that agentic AI introduces new secu-rity threats, including unauthorized use (3/35) , which con-cerns attackers gaining access to the AI agent or its com-ponents. During testing, for instance, P2 found that a “ma-licious party can hack into that agent and take complete control over the system where the agent was being exe-cuted.” Others identified risks of sharing IP/PI information (14/35) , which concerns agents leaking intellectual prop-erty or personally identifiable information from their sys-tems, primarily company repositories or customer data, via tool use or interactions with the agent environment. Agen-tic AI also exacerbated known generative AI security risks because those risks could apply across agentic system com-ponents and tools. For example, P29, whose agent handled bank transactions, emphasized the need to protect “every step” of the agent from prompt injection attacks. 

Agent deployment necessitates accountability, explain-ability, and traceability risks. Deploying agents in real environments required developers to consider the unclear accountability of agent actions (8/35) , where responsibil-ity for an agentic AI system’s actions becomes difficult to assign. In P31’s agent, “a multi-agent system built by dif-ferent teams and aggregated,” making it difficult to pinpoint responsibility when an agent action fails. Participants also differed in how they assigned responsibility between users and agentic systems. P26 framed the agent as “just a tool for the office worker,” suggesting “if the tool is not working well, the office worker is to blame,” while others like P32 stressed distinguishing agent failures from end-user respon-sibility: “if the agent does something wrong, you don’t want to fire an employee because of it.” 

Finally, participants raised concerns about unexplainable and untraceable agent actions (16/35) being a critical bar-rier to end-users’ trust and comfort delegating actions — where explanations, lineage, or source attribution are dif-ficult, imprecise, or unavailable. P16 explained that clients deploying agents in high-stakes or regulated environments needed records of the agent’s “each and every step” , under-standing how an agent arrived at its outputs on what data. 

Awareness Barriers: Novelty and Hype Hindered Developers’ Awareness of Agentic AI Risks 

While developers were sensitized to the risks introduced and exacerbated by the design, development, and deployment of their novel agentic systems, we found that their risk aware-ness was also inhibited by limited organizational guidance and uncertainty around the evolving agentic AI landscape. 

Developers relied on individual judgment to identify agentic AI risks in lieu of specific guidance. Participants (9/35) described agentic AI as too new for organizations to have established practices, resources, expertise, or clear re-sponsibility structures, leaving developers to “learn on your own,” with ‘zero resources available” (P30), extrapolate from prior non-agentic AI experiences, and make situated judgments about which harms mattered for their products. As P7 noted, a core challenge in identifying risks was “the lack of the availability of the seniors... There are not many people building AI agents... there’s no one ready to take the responsibility.” 

The hype around agentic AI made it difficult to clarify the risk landscape. For some product teams (8/35), agen-tic AI remained speculative and contested, requiring devel-opers to negotiate what agents could realistically do, what constituted a useful agentic product, and what risks were worth addressing. P9 described this as “trying to dispel what is hype and what is actually useful.” At the same time, de-velopers also had to navigate a rapidly expanding ecosystem of testing frameworks and evaluation tools for agentic sys-tems, requiring developers to “figure out the noise from the quality [ones]” (P12) when assessing the real risks. 

RQ1 Summary: Taken together, our findings show that de-velopers’ risk perceptions were shaped by risks newly cre-ated by agentic AI characteristics and by risks created or exacerbated through agentic AI product development and deployment. However, this risk awareness was uneven and unsystematic: developers were better at identifying risks di-rectly tied to their agentic AI product’s envisioned utility and deployment, while broader, downstream societal harms were harder to anticipate due to limited guidance and the evolving agentic AI landscape. We revisit developers’ potential agen-tic AI risk-awareness blind spots in the Discussion section. RQ2: How Practitioners Prioritize Addressing Emergent Agentic AI Risks in Their Products 

Grounded in the motivation layer outlined in the SPAF (Das et al. 2022), we next analyzed how participants described the way they (de)prioritized agentic AI risks for their products during the risk-ranking activity — i.e., what makes a risk ranked higher/lower than the others. Our participants gave higher priority to risks with greater forecasted consequence severity . Their prioritization also considered their perceived readiness to mitigate those risks (Figure 2). Beyond the risk-ranking activity, our interviews revealed barriers that inhibited developers from prioritizing risk mit-igation during agentic AI development. These barriers were primarily organizational: risk mitigation often competed with other product goals, introduced opportunity costs, and became difficult to prioritize when ownership was unclear. 

Developers Prioritized Product-Proximate Risks; De-prioritized Broader Risks 

Throughout the risk-ranking activity, our participants fre-quently raised five consequence-oriented considerations that shaped their risk prioritization: agent task quality, produc-tion failures, user adoption, regulatory compliance, and alignment with business objectives. 

Agent task quality. Risks that could undermine the qual-ity of an agent’s task performance, including its accuracy, consistency, and efficiency, were a priority for many partic-ipants (14/35). For accuracy, developers assessed whether a risk would prevent the agent from completing its in-tended function, as P1 explained, “I view [risks] more as the pieces that would inhibit function.” Participants also pri-oritized risks that produced inconsistent outcomes across it-erations, threatening reliability. For example, P12 prioritized the traceability of agent actions because if the product team 

“can’t reproduce the output, it’s really hard to fix whatever comes out.” For efficiency, developers considered whether a risk would make their agent resource-intensive, such as making it “too slow” (P31) or “incurring more cost” (P4). 

Production failures. Some participants (12/35) priori-tized risks based on the severity of failures that could occur once the agent was deployed in production. These assess-ments were context-dependent. For example, P10, whose agent supported user inquiries about credit card informa-tion, emphasized that hallucinations could not be treated as 

“just a silly mistake” because “these are regulations. These could cost the users heavily, so mistakes are not tolerable for this product.” Participants also assessed production at-tack surfaces. As P18 noted, a “malicious prompt” could allow someone to “play with the resources or the tools or tamper with or poison the tools that the agent has access to” , thereby opening the system to substantial risk. 

User adoption. Some participants (13/35) prioritized risks based on their consequences for user adoption, especially user trust and usability. Developers worried that inconsis-tent or opaque agent behavior could erode users’ willing-ness to use their systems. At the same time, participants did not necessarily define trust as requiring a risk-free system; rather, they emphasized that users should understand risks to calibrate their trust. As P15 put it, “if it’s transparent, people can take the risk, and people can avoid the risk and mitigate risk. Transparency is a must.” Participants also pri-oritized risks that harmed usability. P1, for instance, prior-itized addressing redundant agent actions because repeated reflection, tool invocation, and duplicate steps could “bring frustration to the user and make it unusable.” 

Regulatory compliance. Participants (11/35) assessed severity through the consequences of non-compliance, pri-oritizing risks that could produce financial or legal repercus-sions, especially in regulated contexts. Consistent with prior work on developer motivations around responsible AI and privacy (Tahaei, Frik, and Vaniea 2021; Lee et al. 2024a), external regulatory mandates such as the GDPR and the EU AI Act served as important catalysts for risk prioritization. 

Alignment with business objectives. Finally, some par-ticipants (9/35) prioritized risks based on whether they aligned with client concerns or current business priorities; P21 prioritized personal data exposure to external tools be-cause “clients are always concerned about sharing the per-sonal info like ID number [with external tools].” Conversely, other developers de-prioritized risks that were less urgent for current business goals — such as how P2 de-prioritized the risk of exploiting users’ trust in their AI agent because it was 

“much longer along the road map, not right now.” 

Developers Prioritized Risks That Were Harder to Measure and Mitigate 

Participants also prioritized risks by assessing whether their current or near-term systems were ready to mitigate them. These judgments depended on two factors: perceived agent robustness and perceived difficulty of mitigation. 

Perceived agent robustness. Participants (14/35) as-sessed mitigation readiness through their confidence in the robustness of the agentic system stack, including the under-lying model, tools, resources, and architecture. When par-ticipants trusted these components based on available evi-dence, they tended to de-prioritize the associated risk; P12, for instance, treated function-calling hallucination as less concerning because their team had applied the ReAct frame-work (Yao et al. 2022) and because their agents “don’t hal-lucinate anymore, especially with the larger models.” Par-ticipants (13/35) also assessed robustness through existing data protection mechanisms and data flows. For example, an existing verification mechanism could decrease risk (P1), while dependencies on fragile cloud services or external sys-tems could increase it (P30). 

Perceived difficulty of mitigation. When a risk had not yet been mitigated, participants assessed how difficult reme-diation would be in practice, with many (9/35) considering whether available off-the-shelf solutions were available and whether mitigation could be implemented with minimal dis-ruption to product development. Counterintuitively, poorly understood mitigations drove higher risk prioritization: P32 prioritized proprietary data leakage because “there are more nondeterministic ways to make the agent leak information, and the way to mitigate that is not fully understood yet.” 

Conversely, risks were de-prioritized when the required mit-igation appeared straightforward or when implementing it involved limited integration work. 

Motivation Barriers: Organizational Inhibitors Hindered Developers’ Risk Mitigation Work 

Our findings suggest that developers prioritized mitigating risks proximate to their product success. Simultaneously, our interviews show that such product-success-driven ap-proaches also introduced organizational inhibitors that con-strain developers from prioritizing risk mitigation work, in-cluding opportunity costs and unclear ownership. 

Opportunity costs and trade-offs. Most participants noted that risk mitigation involves significant opportunity costs and trade-offs: with tight schedules and limited re-sources, justifying mitigation was complicated by abstract benefits alongside tangible costs. We observed this resulting de-prioritization of risk mitigation in several forms. Developers described trade-offs between mitigation and 

agent performance (12/35) : As we will note in RQ3, many mitigation strategies improved safety by constraining agent behavior, such as restricting tools, limiting data access, or adding guardrails. Yet these same constraints could also re-duce agent value, flexibility, or accuracy. As P3 put it, “the more you limit these tools, the less valued [it] is,” framing the tension as “how far do we swing to give the user the abil-ity to do things but also not shoot themselves in the foot?” 

Some participants also noted that mitigation reduced cost-efficiency (6/35) , as additional checks required “extra com-putation” (P18), increasing both time and monetary cost. Some participants described risk mitigation as competing with business priorities (10/35) and product timelines. As P32 noted, limited engineering capacity meant that the team 

“prioritized other functionalities first.” Others deferred mit-igation because of time pressure (9/35) , especially when products or models changed faster than teams could evalu-ate and integrate new safeguards. Many developers also described mitigation as increasing 

engineering costs (22/35) . Controls added complexity to al-ready complex agentic AI systems, including guardrails for prompt templates, tool-access policies, communication pro-tocols, system state, and memory. These costs continued af-ter deployment because controls had to be maintained as risks evolved (e.g., new prompt injections). 

Risk ownership externalization and misalignment. 

Building AI agents was often a cross-team effort, and par-ticipants (15/35) described limited ownership over risks tied to components built by external teams or falling outside their perceived responsibility. P10 drew a clear boundary around their role in agentic AI development: “I’m the tech guy. I can only make sure it’s as reproducible as possible, but when it’s not, it’s basically the organization’s responsibility,” dismiss-ing regulatory concerns as “not really my concern.” This externalization of mitigation responsibility echoes prior re-sponsible AI work showing that practitioners often distribute ethical responsibility across sociotechnical networks, leav-ing accountability for risk mitigation unclear (Orr and Davis 2020; Rakova et al. 2021; Lee et al. 2024a). Some participants (6/35) also described misaligned prior-ities across teams. For example, P8’s agent depended on a tool built by another team whose codebase introduced a vul-nerability that was “not a priority for them,” forcing P8’s team to seek workarounds because they lacked direct own-ership over the source of the risk. 

RQ2 Summary: Overall, developers’ prioritization of risk mitigation was motivated by both risk-level and product-level factors: at the risk level, developers prioritized risks that threatened product performance, deployment, compli-ance, or adoption, especially when existing systems were not ready to mitigate them; at the product level, mitigation com-peted with other objectives and became harder to prioritize when ownership was unclear or cross-team priorities were misaligned. In short, unless risks could be tied to business success, developers often encountered more inhibitors than motivators when prioritizing agentic AI risk mitigation. 

RQ3: What Constitutes Agentic AI Developers’ Risk Mitigation Approaches 

Finally, as outlined in the SPAF (Das et al. 2022), we ex-amined developers’ ability to translate intentions into risk mitigation. Accordingly, using the bow-tie analysis frame-work (Figure 1), we analyzed the controls participants used to address the causes or mitigate the consequences of agen-tic AI risks. We found that developers addressed agentic AI risks through five mitigation strategies: constrain agen-tic characteristics, reduce agentic errors, strengthen security for agent-mediated data and tool use, prevent human-agent interaction errors, and apply best practices from LLM and software engineering. Across these strategies, a recurring pattern emerged: mitigating agentic AI risks often required developers to limit the very characteristics that made their systems agentic, including autonomy, adaptability, tool use, and open-ended goal pursuit. Developers’ ability to imple-ment these controls was also limited by immature assess-ment methods and by the lack of established, reliable con-trols for agentic AI systems (Figure 2). 

Mitigation Strategies for Agentic AI Risks 

Constrain agentic characteristics. The first set of risk mitigation strategies limited agentic characteristics directly, i.e., autonomy, environment complexity, goal complexity, and adaptability. However, these controls introduced trade-offs that narrowed the agent’s scope of action, reduced its flexibility, or inserted additional human oversight. To constrain agents’ autonomy (7/35) , participants im-plemented human-in-the-loop workflows requiring users to confirm, approve, or revise agent actions, which were espe-cially vital in high-stakes operations. P18’s agent, for ex-ample, requested confirmation before executing actions like 

“run the delete policy function.” Similarly, P22 used human-in-the-loop review, allowing users to “modify the plan” 

when they were unsatisfied with customer-support plans. To constrain agents’ environment complexity (8/35) ,participants limited what tools agents could access and how those tools could be used. One common approach was tool specification : defining the purpose and scope of each tool so that agents had fewer ambiguous options. As P3 explained, 

“our tools that we’ve given the agent access to are very spe-cific,” with little ambiguity about what each tool can do. De-velopers also made agents sensitive to the availability and readiness of tools that interact with the environment. For in-stance, P1 added a planner layer that temporarily adjusted the agent’s plan based on which tools were available. Some participants further reduced risks entailed by environment complexity by designing agent actions to be reversible, en-suring that “whatever the agent does can be undone” (P35). To constrain agents’ goal complexity (5/35) , partici-pants recalibrated what agents were expected to do based on the capabilities of the underlying model. Rather than allow-ing agents to pursue broad or difficult objectives, developers increased task success by “limiting the problem space” (P9) or by constraining the agent to “easier problems” (P4). For longer multi-turn tasks, some developers added interim hu-man verification, so users could steer the agent before it di-verged too far from the intended path. As P9 explained, this prevented users from having to “wait for an hour before get-ting any feedback” and allowed them to provide input while the agent was still acting. To constrain agents’ adaptability (15/35) , participants introduced predetermined actions, responses, and output constraints to make agent behavior more predictable and re-producible. For example, P7 described that their agent was now implemented as a “predefined workflow” rather than a fully adaptable agentic solution. P30 similarly hard-coded parts of the agent to better steer the agent’s recommenda-tions, while others “limit[ed] the response format” (P26) or implemented a topology graph for their agent to be “con-fined to the problem space” (P9). 

Reducing and recovering from agentic errors. A second set of risk mitigation strategies focused on reducing or re-covering from agentic errors, including reasoning errors, in-correct planning or execution, budget overruns, and tool use errors (Agashe et al. 2025; Crispino et al. 2023; Winston and Just 2025). Participants used these controls to prevent incor-rect outputs, reduce inefficiency, and avoid wasting time or computational resources. First, developers implemented action timeouts (3/35) 

when agents failed to complete tasks within expected time or budget limits. For example, P6 explained that if the agent continued for too many iterations “we will be stopping it there,” while P1 configured the agent to treat delayed tool responses as a non-response once a timeout was reached. Second, developers implemented action validation (14/35) to check whether agents completed tasks correctly. Participants added model-based validation layers, such as validator agents or LLM-as-a-judge mechanisms, to assess an agent’s output, reasoning, tool use, or intermediate re-sults. P7, for example, implemented a validator agent to check whether the agent’s explanation aligned with its rec-ommended steps. Others, like P8, validated tool outputs be-fore passing them to downstream services, particularly when agents drew information from multiple sources. Third, developers implemented self-improvement mech-anisms (5/35) that allowed agents to reflect, retry, or im-prove their responses and actions. For more complex tasks, retries could also substantially improve task completion. P9, for instance, described a remediation loop that allowed their IT agent to check whether alerts had cleared and continue trying if they had not, improving “remediation” performance even when the agent’s initial diagnosis remained unchanged. 

Strengthening security for agent-mediated data and tool use. A third set of mitigation strategies adapted estab-lished security practices, such as access control and in-put/output sanitization, to agentic workflows. Developers adapted these practices not only by protecting a model’s prompt or response, but also by constraining how agents acted across user permissions, tools, and data sources. Participants implemented agentic access control (9/35) 

by governing both what data agents could access and which tools they could invoke. Some aligned the agent’s data per-missions with those of the user (e.g., role-based authentica-tion), ensuring the agent could not retrieve data on behalf of unauthorized users. Others controlled tool combinations to prevent sensitive data from flowing into inappropriate ser-vices. P20 explained that if a sales database contained confi-dential data and Google Search was not approved to receive it, the agent would “never call those two combinations.” 

Participants also used data-flow sanitization (11/35) to filter agent inputs and outputs. These controls served as boundary checks on what information could enter or leave downstream agent tool calls. For inputs, participants de-scribed safety checks for uploaded files, filtering harmful user instructions, protection of system prompts, and substi-tution of personal information with dummy data. For out-puts, developers masked sensitive information, while also accounting for task-specific needs. As P29 noted, banking users may legitimately need to see sensitive details like a “transaction ID” to complete a task. 

Preventing human-agent interaction errors. The fourth set of strategies targeted errors arising from human-agent interaction, focusing on helping users form accurate men-tal models of agent capabilities and limitations, reducing instruction-related errors, and preserving user trust. To this end, some developers (13/35) made agent behav-ior more visible through traces, notices, explanations, or source references. P29, for example, described traceability as a way to show users what information the agent relied on, as “traceability is our mitigation to not lose trust, [and] to gain trust.” Participants also viewed source references as a way to communicate AI agents’ limitations more broadly: P26 noted that visible citations help users understand that 

“AI can make mistakes” and enable them to verify whether the agent summarized information correctly. Other developers (6/35) reduced human-agent interaction errors by helping users specify goals and tool-relevant in-tent. Rather than treating user input as a prompt for a single response, these controls helped translate vague requests into plans that agents could follow, route to appropriate tools, and execute. P1 provided query examples and documenta-tion to help users understand which inputs would invoke the right tools. Others added query-rewrite layers: P18 ex-plained how a vague request like “write a policy to protect my data” could be rewritten into a more actionable sequence of steps that helped the agent “do a much better job.” 

Applying best practices from LLM and software engi-neering. Participants also drew on established LLM and software engineering best practices to improve agentic sys-tems’ reliability. For LLM-specific practices, participants (9/35) tested and selected underlying models and parame-ters, improved the quality of agent data sources, and curated real-world task data for training or fine-tuning rather than relying on prompt engineering alone. For software engineer-ing practices, participants (14/35) implemented redundancy and backup mechanisms, monitored tool and agent behavior, conducted code review and testing, and relied on reputable or established tools for agent use. While these practices were not specific to agentic AI, developers saw them as critical to bridging the gap between model capabilities and real-world agentic deployment contexts. 

Ability Barriers: Immature Tooling Hindered Developers’ Ability to Mitigate Agentic AI Risks 

While participants implemented a wide range of controls, they still faced ability barriers that limited their capacity to address agentic AI risks. Developers lacked mature controls, reliable ways to assess agentic AI risks before choosing con-trols, and methods to validate the effectiveness of selected controls at mitigating risk post-deployment. 

Lack of risk assessment resources. Participants (10/35) struggled with agentic risk assessment, which was often a prerequisite for selecting and evaluating mitigation strate-gies — particularly with defining and collecting ground truth data, adapting general benchmarks to domain-specific agen-tic use cases, and ensuring assessments reflected real-world agent behavior. P15, who worked on a legal and compliance agent, noted “there is almost no way to say that this is cor-rect, this is incorrect.” P24, on the other hand, explained that their agent was so domain-specific that “you should have your own examples to test on” ; yet, it was difficult to ob-tain enough examples for effective risk evaluation from their client. Even when participants could use established bench-marks, they worried that these benchmarks might not cap-ture real deployment conditions. As P2 explained, “some-times unexpected things happen in a live environment,” and controlled assessments may not capture how an agent adapts to such noise. Thus, assessment challenges limited develop-ers’ ability to know which controls were needed and whether implemented controls were sufficient. 

Lack of mature risk controls. Our participants (13/35) also struggled because agentic AI was too new for mature controls to exist. Some participants described agent steer-ing and response control as “a very open area of research” 

rather than a solved engineering practice, even though it is something developers “desperately need” (P3). Where usable controls or best practices — e.g., data-flow sanitization, validator agents, action reversibility — did ex-ist, participants found them limited in scope , effectiveness ,and consistency . Some controls were not applicable across all agentic contexts: e.g., developers could not always pre-pare backup endpoints for every tool (P8), or not all agent actions were reversible (P31, P35). This case-specificity meant that the same control strategy could work for one agent, tool, or environment but fail to cover another. Participants (6/35) also acknowledged that existing con-trols often reduced risks without fully mitigating them. For example, P7 noted that their validator agent was still under-trained with domain-specific data and could not always de-termine whether the agent’s explanation was relevant to the steps it recommended. Others were very candid about the weakness of available controls. In describing their use of a disclaimer on potential wrongdoings as a mitigation strat-egy, P31 said, “it’s a crappy solution. It’s just giving up. It’s easy to put a disclaimer.” 

Finally, participants (17/35) worried that controls were themselves inconsistent. Many controls, such as data-flow sanitization, validator agents, and LLM-as-a-judge mecha-nisms, were also powered by LLMs or agentic components. As a result, the control inherited some of the same non-determinism it was supposed to mitigate. P25 summarized this problem: “you are introducing another point of failure because you’re introducing another stochastic approach.” 

Similarly, when access control or safety rules were imple-mented as agent policy, developers worried that agents could still violate those policies, echoing the agent policy violation risks described in RQ1. 

RQ3 Summary: Overall, our findings show that develop-ers addressed agentic AI risks through a wide range of con-trols, such as constraining agentic characteristics, reducing and recovering from agentic errors, strengthening agent se-curity, preventing human-agent interaction errors, and ap-plying conventional engineering best practices. Yet a cen-tral tension emerged in agentic AI risk mitigation: mitigating risks often meant limiting the same characteristics that made a product agentic, i.e., autonomy, adaptability, tool use, and open-endedness. Moreover, their ability to mitigate agentic risks was constrained by assessment methods and controls that are limited in scope, effectiveness, and consistency. 

Discussion 

Grounded in the SPAF (Das et al. 2022), we synthesize promising avenues to better enhance developers’ awareness 

of, motivation to act on, and ability to address agentic AI risks when building user-facing agentic AI products. 

Improving Awareness of Agentic AI Risks 

Our RQ1 findings show that developers were more aware of risks closely tied to agent utility and less attentive to risks less directly connected to product deliverables. This product-proximate awareness can create blind spots. For ex-ample, a large-scale survey of around 10,000 participants across ten countries found that “job availability” and “pri-vacy” were among the public’s top concerns about AI (Kel-ley et al. 2023). These concerns may be intensified as AI agents become more autonomous and embedded in every-day work: agents may automate multi-step workflows that previously required human labor, while also requiring ac-cess to users’ interaction logs, personal data, and third-party tools to act on their behalf. Yet our participants did not fore-ground these threats as central concerns. This mismatch does not mean developers were unaware of these harms, but sug-gests that available risk-identification structures were orga-nized around product utility, adoption, and deployment. We envision two approaches for broadening developers’ risk awareness: agentic AI risk scanning and simulated at-tacks. First, recent work in responsible AI has used gener-ative AI to help practitioners foresee potential downstream harms during product ideation and prototyping (Lee et al. 2026; Wang et al. 2024b; Buc ¸inca et al. 2023). Future work can adapt these risk-scanning tools to agentic AI by ex-plicitly foregrounding agentic characteristics and data flows. Second, red teaming is a common practice in privacy and security for simulating how adversaries might compromise a product (Das et al. 2022), and it has already been adapted in AI contexts to reduce harms (Ganguli et al. 2022). Re-cent efforts have also begun to leverage LLMs and LLM-based agents to automate and scale adversarial testing across realistic tool-use, prompt-injection, and penetration-testing scenarios (Ruan et al. 2024; Debenedetti et al. 2024; Deng et al. 2024). Future work can explore how LLM-powered red teaming might help developers surface and track down-stream harms as agentic characteristics evolve. 

Improving Motivation to Address Agentic AI Risks 

Our RQ2 findings suggest that developers were motivated to address risks tied to product and business success, such as agent performance, but less so for risks that competed with product goals, increased costs, or that were perceived to fall out of their responsibility. We envision two approaches for strengthening motivation to engage in agentic AI risk miti-gation: pro-social and empathy-based design. For pro-social design , organizations could develop shared repositories of agentic AI risk mitigation “light patterns” that include examples of how product designs and outcomes changed before and after mitigation. Such repositories could provide social proof for HAI-aligned agentic AI develop-ment. For empathy-based design , recent work has explored narrative- and empathy-based approaches for helping prac-titioners translate abstract risks into relatable human con-sequences (Chen et al. 2024; Nahar et al. 2026). When in-corporated into developer education and product develop-ment life-cycles, empathy-based design could help develop-ers better understand how agentic AI risks affect users and other stakeholders. Importantly, these approaches are only effective when workplace leaders signal that risk mitiga-tion takes equal precedence to commercial and client goals (Culbertson 2025; Madaio et al. 2020), and integrate these practices through product development, as exemplified by privacy-by-design approaches (Cavoukian et al. 2009). 

Improving Ability to Address Agentic AI Risks 

Our RQ3 findings identified a capability vs. risk control tension in agentic AI development: mitigating agentic AI risks often requires constraining the same characteristics that make products agentic. Participants felt ill-equipped to as-sess agentic AI risks and implement controls consistently, though this gap does not strictly stem from the absence of agentic AI risk resources. Emerging tools and frameworks (e.g., (Credo AI 2026; Bagehorn et al. 2025; Madkour et al. 2026)) support some aspects of agentic AI risk identifica-tion, governance, and mitigation. Rather, developers need support for navigating trade-offs and deciding which con-trols are appropriate and feasible for their use case. HAI research offers a useful precedent. Artifacts such as checklists (e.g., (Madaio et al. 2020)), model cards (e.g., (Mitchell et al. 2019)), and impact assessments (e.g., (Fiesler and Proferes 2018)) have helped practitioners translate high-level principles such as fairness, accountability, and trans-parency into actionable, practitioner-facing workflows for documenting, evaluating, and reflecting on AI systems. Fu-ture agentic AI design artifacts can build on this approach by helping teams articulate what agentic characteristics their products rely on, what risks those characteristics create, and what trade-offs different controls would introduce. 

Limitations 

First, because our findings are grounded in participants’ re-ported experiences, they should not be interpreted as repre-sentative of all agentic AI developers or industry contexts. We also did not explicitly prime participants on what should or should not count as agentic AI risks or practices. Par-ticipants may therefore have responded differently under a more heavily scaffolded protocol. Second, because we re-cruited developers who already had experience addressing risks in user-facing agentic AI products, our sample may be skewed toward participants with relatively high risk aware-ness. Third, our sample was drawn from a single interna-tional software company, which limits generalizability. 

Conclusion 

We interviewed 35 industry developers who build user-facing agentic AI products to examine how they perceive, prioritize, and address emergent risks in their products. De-velopers perceived agentic AI as creating and exacerbat-ing risks above and beyond standard generative AI prod-ucts. They perceived and prioritized risks through a product-and business-oriented model of success, focusing on risks tied to agent performance and business objectives, and de-emphasizing risks that introduced opportunity costs or fell outside of their perceived scope of work. Developers also implemented layered controls to constrain agent behavior, reduce agentic errors, strengthen access control, and support human-agent interaction, but these controls often worked by constraining the same characteristics that made their systems agentic. Together, our findings reveal a capability vs. risk control tension in agentic AI development: developers need to manage risks that emerge from agentic capabilities, but their current tools, incentives, and organizational structures make risk mitigation difficult to operationalize in practice. References 

Acharya, D. B.; Kuppan, K.; and Divya, B. 2025. Agentic AI: Autonomous Intelligence for Complex Goals—A Com-prehensive Survey. IEEE Access , 13: 18912–18936. Agashe, S.; Han, J.; Gan, S.; Yang, J.; Li, A.; and Wang, X. 2025. Agent s: An open agentic framework that uses computers like a human. In International Conference on Learning Representations , volume 2025, 22924–22946. Bagehorn, F.; Brimijoin, K.; Daly, E. M.; He, J.; Hind, M.; Garces-Erice, L.; Giblin, C.; Giurgiu, I.; Martino, J.; Nair, R.; Piorkowski, D.; Rawat, A.; Richards, J.; Rooney, S.; Sal-wala, D.; Tirupathi, S.; Urbanetz, P.; Varshney, K. R.; Vejsb-jerg, I.; and Wolf-Bauwens, M. L. 2025. AI Risk Atlas: Tax-onomy and Tooling for Navigating AI Risks and Resources. Bellog´ ın, A.; Giudici, P.; Larsson, S.; Pang, J.; Schimpf, G.; Sengupta, B.; and Solmaz, G. 2025. Systemic Risks Asso-ciated with Agentic AI : A Policy Brief. Technical report, Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). Buc ¸inca, Z.; Pham, C. M.; Jakesch, M.; Ribeiro, M. T.; Olteanu, A.; and Amershi, S. 2023. Aha!: Facilitating ai impact assessment by generating examples of harms. arXiv preprint arXiv:2306.03280 .Cavoukian, A.; et al. 2009. Privacy by design: The 7 foun-dational principles. Information and privacy commissioner of Ontario, Canada , 5(2009): 12. Chan, A.; Salganik, R.; Markelius, A.; Pang, C.; Rajkumar, N.; Krasheninnikov, D.; Langosco, L.; He, Z.; Duan, Y.; Car-roll, M.; Lin, M.; Mayhew, A.; Collins, K.; Molamoham-madi, M.; Burden, J.; Zhao, W.; Rismani, S.; Voudouris, K.; Bhatt, U.; Weller, A.; Krueger, D.; and Maharaj, T. 2023. Harms from Increasingly Agentic Algorithmic Sys-tems. In 2023 ACM Conference on Fairness Accountability and Transparency , 651–666. Chicago IL USA: ACM. ISBN 979-8-4007-0192-4. Chang, T.; and Razi, A. 2026. A Systematic Literature Re-view of Generative AI Risks and Harms for Youth. In Pro-ceedings of the Extended Abstracts of the 2026 CHI Con-ference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , CHI EA ’26. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Ma-chinery. ISBN 9798400722813. Chen, C.; Li, W.; Song, W.; Ye, Y.; Yao, Y.; and Li, T. J.-J. 2024. An Empathy-Based Sandbox Approach to Bridge the Privacy Gap among Attitudes, Goals, Knowledge, and Behaviors. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , CHI ’24. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400703300. Condon, G.; and Jilani, M. 2026. Towards a framework for Bias Evaluation of AI Agents in Agentic Workflows. In Pro-ceedings of the 2026 Conference on Human Centred Artifi-cial Intelligence - Education and Practice , HCAIep ’26, 46– 52. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Ma-chinery. ISBN 9798400721533. Corbin, J.; and Strauss, A. 2008. Basics of Qualita-tive Research: Techniques and Procedures for Developing Grounded Theory . Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publica-tions, 3 edition. ISBN 9781412906449. Credo AI. 2026. Credo AI: The Trusted Leader in AI Gov-ernance. https://www.credo.ai/. Accessed: 2026-05-19. Crispino, N.; Montgomery, K.; Zeng, F.; Song, D.; and Wang, C. 2023. Agent instructs large language mod-els to be general zero-shot reasoners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.03710 .Culbertson, S. 2025. How Does Organizational Culture In-fluence the Adoption of AI Ethics Practices Across Sectors? 

Muma Business Review , 9(18): 193–210. Das, S.; Faklaris, C.; Hong, J. I.; Dabbish, L. A.; et al. 2022. The Security & Privacy Acceptance Framework (SPAF). 

Foundations and Trends® in Privacy and Security , 5(1-2): 1–143. Debenedetti, E.; Wang, T.; Li, J.; Feng, Z.; Zhang, Y.; Eger, S.; and Tram` er, F. 2024. AgentDojo: A Dynamic Environ-ment to Evaluate Prompt Injection Attacks and Defenses for LLM Agents. In Advances in Neural Information Process-ing Systems (NeurIPS) .Deng, G.; Liu, Y.; Mayoral-Vilches, V.; Wang, P.; Liu, Z. Q.; Zhang, Y.; Liu, Y.; and Song, D. 2024. PentestGPT: Evaluat-ing and Harnessing Large Language Models for Automated Penetration Testing. In 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , 747–764. USENIX Association. Ehsan, U.; Alabdulkarim, A.; Holstein, K.; Lee, M. K.; Riener, A.; and Weisz, J. D. 2026. Human-Centered Ex-plainable AI (HCXAI): Re-examining XAI in the Era of Agentic AI. In Proceedings of the Extended Abstracts of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , CHI EA ’26. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400722813. Fiesler, C.; and Proferes, N. 2018. “Participant” percep-tions of Twitter research ethics. Social Media+ Society , 4(1): 2056305118763366. Floridi, L.; Cowls, J.; Beltrametti, M.; Chatila, R.; Chazerand, P.; Dignum, V.; Luetge, C.; Madelin, R.; Pa-gallo, U.; Rossi, F.; Schafer, B.; Valcke, P.; and Vayena, E. 2018. AI4People—An Ethical Framework for a Good AI Society: Opportunities, Risks, Principles, and Recommen-dations. Minds and Machines , 28(4): 689–707. Gan, Y.; Yang, Y.; Ma, Z.; He, P.; Zeng, R.; Wang, Y.; Li, Q.; Zhou, C.; Li, S.; Wang, T.; Gao, Y.; Wu, Y.; and Ji, S. 2026. Navigating the Risks: A Survey of Security and Privacy Threats in LLM-Based Agents. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. Just Accepted. Gangavarapu, R. 2025. AI Governance: Preparing for the Rise of Agentic AI , 111–119. Cham: Springer Nature Switzerland. ISBN 978-3-031-93681-4. Ganguli, D.; Lovitt, L.; Kernion, J.; Askell, A.; Bai, Y.; Ka-davath, S.; Mann, B.; Perez, E.; Schiefer, N.; Ndousse, K.; et al. 2022. Red teaming language models to reduce harms: Methods, scaling behaviors, and lessons learned. arXiv preprint arXiv:2209.07858 .Gebru, T.; Morgenstern, J.; Vecchione, B.; Vaughan, J. W.; Wallach, H.; Iii, H. D.; and Crawford, K. 2021. Datasheets for datasets. Communications of the ACM , 64(12): 86–92. Glaser, M.; and Littlebury, R. 2024. Governance of arti-ficial intelligence and machine learning in pharmacovigi-lance: what works today and what more is needed? Ther-apeutic Advances in Drug Safety , 15: 20420986241293303. Hart, R. 2026a. The AI Security Nightmare Is Here and It Looks Suspiciously Like Lobster. The Verge . Published February 19, 2026. Accessed: April 25, 2026. Hart, R. 2026b. Amazon Blames Human Employees for an AI Coding Agent’s Mistake. The Verge . Published February 20, 2026. Accessed: May 19, 2026. Infocomm Media Development Authority. 2026. Model AI Governance Framework for Agentic AI. Model governance framework, Infocomm Media Development Authority, Sin-gapore. Version 1.0. Kasirzadeh, A.; and Gabriel, I. 2025. Characterizing AI Agents for Alignment and Governance. ArXiv:2504.21848 [cs]. Kelley, P. G.; Cornejo, C.; Hayes, L.; Jin, E. S.; Sedley, A.; Thomas, K.; Yang, Y.; and Woodruff, A. 2023. “There will be less privacy, of course”: How and why people in 10 coun-tries expect AI will affect privacy in the future. In Nineteenth Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS 2023) ,579–603. Anaheim, CA: USENIX Association. ISBN 978-1-939133-36-6. Kenthapadi, K.; Lakkaraju, H.; and Rajani, N. 2023. Gen-erative AI meets Responsible AI: Practical Challenges and Opportunities. In Proceedings of the 29th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining ,KDD ’23, 5805–5806. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400701030. Koessler, L.; and Schuett, J. 2023. Risk assessment at AGI companies: A review of popular risk assessment techniques from other safety-critical industries. ArXiv:2307.08823 [cs]. Lee, H.-P. H.; Gao, L.; Yang, S.; Forlizzi, J.; and Das, S. 2024a. ”I Don’t Know If We’re Doing Good. I Don’t Know If We’re Doing Bad”: Investigating How Practition-ers Scope, Motivate, and Conduct Privacy Work When De-veloping AI Products. In 33rd USENIX Security Sympo-sium (USENIX Security 24) , 4873–4890. Philadelphia, PA: USENIX Association. ISBN 978-1-939133-44-1. Lee, H.-P. H.; Yang, Y.-J.; Bilik, M.; Krsek, I.; von Davier, T. S.; Monteiro, K.; Lin, J.; Agarwal, S.; Forlizzi, J.; and Das, S. 2026. Privy: Envisioning and Mitigating Privacy Risks for Consumer-facing AI Product Concepts. In Pro-ceedings of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , CHI ’26. New York, NY, USA: Associ-ation for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400722783. Lee, H.-P. H.; Yang, Y.-J.; Von Davier, T. S.; Forlizzi, J.; and Das, S. 2024b. Deepfakes, Phrenology, Surveillance, and More! A Taxonomy of AI Privacy Risks. In Proceedings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Comput-ing Systems , CHI ’24. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400703300. Li, B.; Qi, P.; Liu, B.; Di, S.; Liu, J.; Pei, J.; Yi, J.; and Zhou, B. 2023. Trustworthy AI: From Principles to Practices. ACM Comput. Surv. , 55(9). Li, L.; Ma, R.; Xue, Z.; and Xiong, J. 2026. Characterizing User-Reported Risks across LLM Chatbots. In Proceedings of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Comput-ing Systems , CHI ’26. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400722783. Li, T.; Agarwal, Y.; and Hong, J. I. 2018. Coconut: An IDE Plugin for Developing Privacy-Friendly Apps. Proc. ACM Interact. Mob. Wearable Ubiquitous Technol. , 2(4). Li, T.; Reiman, K.; Agarwal, Y.; Cranor, L. F.; and Hong, J. I. 2022. Understanding Challenges for Developers to Cre-ate Accurate Privacy Nutrition Labels. In Proceedings of the 2022 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Comput-ing Systems , CHI ’22. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9781450391573. Madaio, M. A.; Stark, L.; Wortman Vaughan, J.; and Wal-lach, H. 2020. Co-designing checklists to understand or-ganizational challenges and opportunities around fairness in AI. In Proceedings of the 2020 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , 1–14. Madkour, N.; Newman, J.; Raman, D.; Jackson, K.; Murphy, E. R.; and Yuan, C. 2026. Agentic AI Risk-Management Standards Profile. Technical report, UC Berkeley Center for Long-Term Cybersecurity, Berkeley, CA. Accessed: 2026-05-19. Miehling, E.; Ramamurthy, K. N.; Varshney, K. R.; Riemer, M.; Bouneffouf, D.; Richards, J. T.; Dhurandhar, A.; Daly, E. M.; Hind, M.; Sattigeri, P.; Wei, D.; Rawat, A.; Gajcin, J.; and Geyer, W. 2025. Agentic AI Needs a Systems Theory. ArXiv:2503.00237 [cs.AI]. Mitchell, M.; Wu, S.; Zaldivar, A.; Barnes, P.; Vasserman, L.; Hutchinson, B.; Spitzer, E.; Raji, I. D.; and Gebru, T. 2019. Model cards for model reporting. In Proceedings of the conference on fairness, accountability, and trans-parency , 220–229. Nahar, N.; Yang, C.; Chen, Y.; Hanwen Deng, W.; Holstein, K.; Eslami, M.; and K¨ astner, C. 2026. “I Don’t Think RAI Applies to My Model” – Engaging Non-champions with Sticky Stories for Responsible AI Work. In Proceedings of the 2026 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Comput-ing Systems , CHI ’26. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400722783. Orr, W.; and Davis, J. L. 2020. Attributions of ethical re-sponsibility by Artificial Intelligence practitioners. Infor-mation, Communication & Society , 23(5): 719–735. Pan, M. Z.; Arabzadeh, N.; Cogo, R.; Zhu, Y.; Xiong, A.; Agrawal, L. A.; Mao, H.; Shen, E.; Pallerla, S.; Patel, L.; Liu, S.; Shi, T.; Liu, X.; Davis, J. Q.; Lacavalla, E.; Basile, A.; Yang, S.; Castro, P.; Kang, D.; Gonzalez, J. E.; Sen, K.; Song, D.; Stoica, I.; Zaharia, M.; and Ellis, M. 2026. Mea-suring Agents in Production. ArXiv:2512.04123 [cs]. Pant, A.; Hoda, R.; Spiegler, S. V.; Tantithamthavorn, C.; and Turhan, B. 2024. Ethics in the Age of AI: An Analysis of AI Practitioners’ Awareness and Challenges. ACM Trans. Softw. Eng. Methodol. , 33(3): 80:1–80:35. Rakova, B.; Yang, J.; Cramer, H.; and Chowdhury, R. 2021. Where Responsible AI meets Reality: Practitioner Perspec-tives on Enablers for Shifting Organizational Practices. Pro-ceedings of the ACM on Human-Computer Interaction ,5(CSCW1): 1–23. Roth, E. 2026. OpenClaw’s AI “Skill” Extensions Are a Se-curity Nightmare. https://www.theverge.com/news/874011/ openclaw-ai-skill-clawhub-extensions-security-nightmare. Published February 4, 2026. Accessed: 2026-04-25. Ruan, Y.; Maddison, C. J.; Hashimoto, T. B.; and Liang, P. 2024. Identifying the Risks of LM Agents with an LM-Emulated Sandbox. In Proceedings of the Twelfth Interna-tional Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR) .Sanderson, C.; Douglas, D.; Lu, Q.; Schleiger, E.; Whit-tle, J.; Lacey, J.; Newnham, G.; Hajkowicz, S.; Robin-son, C.; and Hansen, D. 2023. AI Ethics Principles in Practice: Perspectives of Designers and Developers. IEEE Transactions on Technology and Society , 4(2): 171–187. ArXiv:2112.07467 [cs]. Shneiderman, B. 2020. Bridging the gap between ethics and practice: guidelines for reliable, safe, and trustworthy human-centered AI systems. ACM Transactions on Interac-tive Intelligent Systems (TiiS) , 10(4): 1–31. Shome, P.; Krishnan, S.; and Das, S. 2026. Why Johnny Can’t Use Agents: Industry Aspirations vs. User Realities with AI Agents. In ACM Conference on AI and Agentic Sys-tems (CAIS) .Steenstra, I.; and Bickmore, T. 2025. A Risk Ontology for Evaluating AI-Powered Psychotherapy Virtual Agents. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM International Confer-ence on Intelligent Virtual Agents , IVA ’25. New York, NY, USA: Association for Computing Machinery. ISBN 9798400715082. Tahaei, M.; Frik, A.; and Vaniea, K. 2021. Privacy cham-pions in software teams: understanding their motivations, strategies, and challenges. In Proceedings of the 2021 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems , 1–15. Thiebes, S.; Lins, S.; and Sunyaev, A. 2021. Trustworthy Artificial Intelligence. Electronic Markets , 31(2): 447–464. Wang, L.; Ma, C.; Feng, X.; Zhang, Z.; Yang, H.; Zhang, J.; Chen, Z.; Tang, J.; Chen, X.; Lin, Y.; Zhao, W. X.; Wei, Z.; and Wen, J. 2024a. A survey on large language model based autonomous agents. Frontiers of Computer Science , 18(6): 186345. Wang, Z. J.; Kulkarni, C.; Wilcox, L.; Terry, M.; and Madaio, M. 2024b. Farsight: Fostering Responsible AI Awareness During AI Application Prototyping. In Proceed-ings of the 2024 CHI Conference on Human Factors in Com-puting Systems , CHI ’24, 1–40. New York, NY, USA: Asso-ciation for Computing Machinery. ISBN 979-8-4007-0330-0. Winfield, A. F.; and Jirotka, M. 2018. Ethical governance is essential to building trust in robotics and artificial intelli-gence systems. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal So-ciety A: Mathematical, Physical and Engineering Sciences ,376(2133): 20180085. Winston, C.; and Just, R. 2025. A taxonomy of failures in tool-augmented llms. In 2025 IEEE/ACM International Conference on Automation of Software Test (AST) , 125–135. IEEE. World Economic Forum; and Capgemini. 2025. AI Agents in Action: Foundations for Evaluation and Governance. White paper, World Economic Forum, Geneva, Switzerland. Yao, S.; Zhao, J.; Yu, D.; Du, N.; Shafran, I.; Narasimhan, K.; and Cao, Y. 2022. React: Synergizing reasoning and act-ing in language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03629 .Semi-structured Interview Protocol 

Agentic AI Product Information 

1. Can you briefly describe the AI agent you’re working on? 2. What is your role in the team? 3. Who are the users of your AI agent? 

Developers’ Concerns for Their Agentic AI Products 

We’d like to learn more about your experience handling risks for your AI agent. 4. (For each of the three HAI principles the participant se-lected in the pre-study questionnaire) (a) Can you recall the last time you and your team dis-cussed a specific risk related to [the HAI principle]? i. Why is [the risk mentioned] important to consider for your AI agent? ii. Do you think [the risk mentioned] emerges because this product is agentic? 

Agentic AI Risk Prioritization 

Here are the risks that you said are relevant to your AI agent. Now, spend a minute refreshing your memory with these risks, and rank these risks in the order of their importance for this particular AI agent. (Wait for the participant to finish the risk-ranking activ-ity.) Now, I’d like you to reflect on how you ranked these risks. 5. Let’s start with the risk at the top, [the first risk]. Why is this risk ranked over all the other risks? (a) What did you consider when ranking this risk first? 6. Let’s take a look at the risk at the bottom, [the last risk]. Why is this risk ranked lower than all the other risks here? (a) What did you consider when ranking this risk last? 7. Beyond [a summary of the factors the participant men-tioned], is there anything else you considered when rank-ing these risks? 

Bow-tie Analysis 

Introduction to the bow-tie analysis diagram Look at this bow-tie shape workspace: in the center, we will put the risk that we will be analyzing. On the left side, we look at what could cause the risk; these are called “causes.” On the right side, we think about what could happen after the risk happens; these are “consequences.” Then, we identify controls, things we can do to either prevent the risk from happening, or reduce and recover its impact if it does. This method helps us think about the underlying factors of risks and what we can do about them. (The participant picks one of the ranked agentic AI risks that they have attempted to mitigate, and puts the risk at the center of the bow-tie diagram.) 

Risk causes Now, let’s first identify the root causes of the risk. These causes can be technical or non-technical. 8. (Wait for the participant to put causes on the diagram, and for each cause, ask:) (a) How does this cause link to your AI agent? 

Preventive controls 

9. (For each cause identified, ask:) (a) What preventive controls have you applied, either technical or non-technical, that can prevent [the cause] from causing [the risk]? i. What challenges, if any, did you and your team face when applying this preventive control? ii. What tradeoffs, if any, did you and your team have to make when applying this preventive control? 

Risk consequences Let’s move on and think about poten-tial consequences of this risk that you’d want to mitigate or reduce for your AI agent. 10. (Wait for the participant to put consequences on the dia-gram, and for each consequence, ask:) (a) Who would be impacted? (b) Why is the consequence crucial to consider? 

Protective controls 

11. (For each consequence identified, ask:) (a) What protective controls have you applied, either tech-nical or non-technical, that can reduce or prevent [the consequence] from happening? i. What challenges, if any, did you and your team face when applying this protective control? ii. What tradeoffs, if any, did you and your team have to make when applying this protective control? 

Closing 

12. Anything else you’d like to share about addressing risks for your AI agent before we wrap this up? Sorted List 

#1 (Highest Risk) 

#2 

#3 

#4 

#5 

Accountability 

of AI agent 

actions 

Unexplainable 

and untraceable 

actions 

Attack on AI 

agents’ external 

resources 

Function calling 

hallucination 

AI agent 

compliance 

Explanations, lineage and trace 

information, and source attribution for AI 

agent actions might be difficult, 

imprecise or unobtainable. 

Unexplainable 

and untraceable 

actions 

Attack on AI 

agents’ external 

resources 

Attackers intentionally create 

vulnerabilities or exploit existing 

vulnerabilities in external resources 

(tools/database/applications/ 

services/other agents) that AI 

agents rely on to execute their 

intended actions or to achieve their 

goals. 

AI agents might make mistakes when 

generating function calls (calls to tools 

to execute actions). Those function calls 

might result in incorrect, unnecessary or 

harmful actions. Examples: Generating 

wrong functions or wrong parameters 

for the functions. 

Function calling 

hallucination 

Assigning responsibility for an 

action taken by an agentic AI 

system is difficult due to the 

complexity of agents and the 

number of external resources, 

tools or agents they interact with. 

Accountability 

of AI agent 

actions 

AI agent 

compliance 

Determining AI agents' compliance 

is complex and there might not be 

enough information to assess 

whether the agentic AI system is 

compliant with applicable legal 

requirements. 

Step 1: Review Relevant Risks Step 2: Rank Figure 3: Example of a completed risk-ranking activity used in the interview. Participants reviewed five agentic AI risks selected from their questionnaire responses, ranked them by how important they were to address for their agentic AI product, and explained the factors that shaped their ranking. Table 1: Agentic AI risks, grouped by human-centered AI (HAI) principle. 

HAI Principle Agentic AI Risk (Bagehorn et al. 2025) 

Privacy Protection and Security 

Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user: AI agents with unrestricted access to resources or databases or tools could potentially store and share PI/IP/confidential information with system users when performing their actions. 

Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools: AI agents with unrestricted access to resources or databases or tools could potentially store and share PI/IP/confidential information with other tools or agents when performing their actions. Reliability and Safety 

Attack on AI agents’ external resources: Attackers intentionally create vulnerabilities or exploit existing vulnerabilities in external resources (tools/database/applications/services/other agents) that AI agents rely on to execute their intended actions or to achieve their goals. 

Unauthorized use: If attackers can gain access to the AI agent and its components, they can perform actions that can have different levels of harm depending on the agent’s capabilities and information it has access to. Examples: - Using stored personal information to mimic identity or impersonate with an intent to deceive. - Manipulating AI agent’s behavior via feedback to the AI agent or corrupting its memory to change its behavior. - Manipulating the problem description or the goal to get the AI agent to behave badly or run harmful commands. 

Exploit trust mismatch: Attackers might initiate injection attacks to bypass the trust boundary, which is a distinct point or conceptual line where the level of trust in a system, application or network changes. Background execution in multi-agent environments increases the risk of covert channels if input/output validation is weak. 

Function calling hallucination: AI agents might make mistakes when generating function calls (calls to tools to execute actions). Those function calls might result in incorrect, unnecessary or harmful actions. Examples: Generating wrong functions or wrong parameters for the functions. Transparency and Explainability 

Lack of AI agent transparency: Lack of AI agent transparency is due to insufficient documentation of the AI agent design, development, evaluation process, absence of insights into the inner workings of the AI agent, and interaction with other agents/tools/resources. 

Unexplainable and untraceable actions: Explanations, lineage and trace information, and source attribution for AI agent actions might be difficult, imprecise or unobtainable. Fairness 

Introduce data bias: Specific actions taken by the AI agent, such as modifying a dataset or a database, can introduce bias in the resource that gets used by others or by itself to take actions. 

Discriminatory actions: AI agents can take actions where one group of humans is unfairly advantaged over another due to the decisions of the model. This may be caused by AI agents’ biased actions that impact the world, in the resources consulted, and in the resource selection process. For example, an AI agent can generate code that can be biased. Performance and Testing 

Incomplete AI agent evaluation: Evaluating the performance or accuracy or an agent is difficult because of system complexity and open-endedness. 

Redundant actions: AI agents can execute actions that are not needed for achieving the goal. In an extreme case, AI agents might enter a cycle of executing the same actions repeatedly without any progress. This could happen because of unexpected conditions in the environment, the AI agent’s failure to reflect on its action, AI agent reasoning and planning errors or the AI agent’s lack of knowledge about the problem. 

Reproducibility: Replicating agent behavior or output can be impacted by changes or updates made to external services and tools. This impact is increased if the agent is built with generative AI. 

Mitigation and maintenance: The large number of components and dependencies that agent systems have complicates keeping them up to date and correcting problems. Accountability 

Accountability of AI agent actions: Assigning responsibility for an action taken by an agentic AI system is difficult due to the complexity of agents and the number of external resources, tools or agents they interact with. 

AI agent compliance: Determining AI agents’ compliance is complex and there might not be enough information to assess whether the agentic AI system is compliant with applicable legal requirements. Human-centered Values 

Over- or under-reliance on AI agents: Reliance, that is the willingness to accept an AI agent behavior, depends on how much a user trusts that agent and what they are using it for. Over-reliance occurs when a user puts too much trust in an AI agent, accepting an AI agent’s behavior even when it is likely undesired. Under-reliance is the opposite, where the user doesn’t trust the AI agent but should. Increasing autonomy (to take action, select and consult resources/tools) of AI agents and the possibility of opaqueness and open-endedness increase the variability and visibility of agent behavior leading to difficulty in calibrating trust and possibly contributing to both over- and under-reliance. 

Misaligned actions: AI agents can take actions that are not aligned with relevant human values, ethical considerations, guidelines and policies. Misaligned actions can occur in different ways such as: - Applying learned goals inappropriately to new or unforeseen situations. - Using AI agents for a purpose/goals that are beyond their intended use. - Selecting resources or tools in a biased way - Using deceptive tactics to achieve the goal by developing the capacity for scheming based on the instructions given within a specific context. - Compromising on AI agent values to work with another AI agent or tool to accomplish the task. Human, Social and Environmental Wellbeing 

AI agents’ impact on human dignity: If human workers perceive AI agents as being better at doing the job of the human, the human can experience a decline in their self-worth and wellbeing. 

AI agents’ impact on human agency: The autonomous nature of AI agents in performing tasks or taking actions might affect the individuals’ ability to engage in critical thinking, make choices and act independently. 

AI agents’ impact on jobs: Widespread adoption of AI agents to perform complex tasks might lead to widespread automation of roles and might lead to job displacement. 

AI agents’ impact on environment: Complexity of the tasks and possibility of AI agents performing redundant actions could lead to computational inefficiencies and add to the environmental impact. Table 2: Participant Information 

PID Job title Application domain of the agentic AI products Selected human-centered AI principles Ranked agentic AI risks 

P1 Technical Specialist Sales & Marketing Reliability and Safety Privacy Protection and Security Performance and Testing Redundant actions Function calling hallucination Incomplete AI agent evaluation Attack on AI agents’ external resources Unauthorized use P2 Research Scientist Information Technology Performance and Testing Reliability and Safety Transparency and Explainability Incomplete AI agent evaluation Function calling hallucination Redundant actions Mitigation and maintenance Exploit trust mismatch P3 Software Developer Research & Development Privacy Protection and Security Reliability and Safety Performance and Testing Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Exploit trust mismatch Attack on AI agents’ external resources Function calling hallucination Unauthorized use P4 Research Scientist Information Technology Transparency and Explainability Performance and Testing Accountability Incomplete AI agent evaluation Accountability of AI agent actions Unexplainable and untraceable actions Lack of AI agent transparency Redundant actions P5 AI Engineer Corporate Services Reliability and Safety Transparency and Explainability Accountability Attack on AI agents’ external resources Unauthorized use Accountability of AI agent actions Lack of AI agent transparency AI agent compliance P6 Software Developer Software Development Privacy Protection and Security Accountability Human-centred Values Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Misaligned actions AI agent compliance Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Over- or under-reliance on AI agents P7 Software Developer Information Technology Performance and Testing Reliability and Safety Transparency and Explainability Attack on AI agents’ external resources Unexplainable and untraceable actions Unauthorized use Redundant actions Incomplete AI agent evaluation P8 Software Developer Customer Support Performance and Testing Transparency and Explainability Accountability Unexplainable and untraceable actions AI agent compliance Accountability of AI agent actions Incomplete AI agent evaluation Mitigation and maintenance P9 Software Developer Information Technology Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Reliability and Safety Incomplete AI agent evaluation Reproducibility Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Function calling hallucination Redundant actions P10 AI Engineer Finance & Banking Reliability and Safety Transparency and Explainability Performance and Testing Reproducibility Lack of AI agent transparency Unexplainable and untraceable actions Function calling hallucination Attack on AI agents’ external resources P11 Software Developer Corporate Services Privacy Protection and Security Fairness Transparency and Explainability Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Unexplainable and untraceable actions Lack of AI agent transparency Introduce data bias Discriminatory actions P12 Platform Engineer Customer Support Transparency and Explainability Performance and Testing Reliability and Safety Incomplete AI agent evaluation Reproducibility Unexplainable and untraceable actions Lack of AI agent transparency Function calling hallucination P13 Software Developer Corporate Services Accountability Privacy Protection and Security Transparency and Explainability Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Accountability of AI agent actions Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Lack of AI agent transparency AI agent compliance P14 AI Engineer Customer Support Human, Social and Environmental Wellbeing Performance and Testing Reliability and Safety Unauthorized use Redundant actions Exploit trust mismatch AI agents’ impact on jobs AI agents’ impact on environment P15 Technical Specialist Legal & Compliance Transparency and Explainability Accountability Reliability and Safety Unexplainable and untraceable actions Accountability of AI agent actions Attack on AI agents’ external resources Function calling hallucination AI agent compliance P16 Technical Consultant Corporate Services Privacy Protection and Security Accountability Transparency and Explainability Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Accountability of AI agent actions Unexplainable and untraceable actions Lack of AI agent transparency P17 Technical Solution Architect Healthcare Services Human, Social and Environmental Wellbeing Reliability and Safety Accountability AI agents’ impact on human agency Accountability of AI agent actions Exploit trust mismatch Unauthorized use AI agents’ impact on environment P18 Data Scientist Legal & Compliance Performance and Testing Transparency and Explainability Reliability and Safety Function calling hallucination Attack on AI agents’ external resources Reproducibility Unexplainable and untraceable actions Lack of AI agent transparency P19 AI Engineer Finance & Banking Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Transparency and Explainability Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Lack of AI agent transparency Mitigation and maintenance Incomplete AI agent evaluation P20 Research Scientist Sales & Marketing Reliability and Safety Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Reproducibility Function calling hallucination Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Unauthorized use Table 3: Participant Information (continued) 

PID Job title Application domain of the agentic AI products Selected human-centered AI principles Ranked agentic AI risks 

P21 Technical Lead Customer Support Performance and Testing Accountability Privacy Protection and Security Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Incomplete AI agent evaluation Accountability of AI agent actions Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Mitigation and maintenance P22 AI Engineer Customer Support Performance and Testing Transparency and Explainability Reliability and Safety Unexplainable and untraceable actions Unauthorized use Reproducibility Lack of AI agent transparency Mitigation and maintenance P23 Technical Specialist Finance & Banking Transparency and Explainability Reliability and Safety Accountability AI agent compliance Unexplainable and untraceable actions Accountability of AI agent actions Exploit trust mismatch Function calling hallucination P24 AI Engineer Customer Support Transparency and Explainability Privacy Protection and Security Fairness Lack of AI agent transparency Introduce data bias Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Discriminatory actions P25 AI Engineer Information Technology Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Transparency and Explainability Mitigation and maintenance Incomplete AI agent evaluation Lack of AI agent transparency Unexplainable and untraceable actions Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools P26 Technical Solution Architect Government & Public Sector Human, Social and Environmental Wellbeing Reliability and Safety Accountability Function calling hallucination Attack on AI agents’ external resources AI agents’ impact on human agency AI agents’ impact on environment Accountability of AI agent actions P27 Software Developer Customer Support Accountability Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Incomplete AI agent evaluation Accountability of AI agent actions Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Redundant actions P28 Technical Solution Architect Corporate Services Accountability Performance and Testing Transparency and Explainability Lack of AI agent transparency Accountability of AI agent actions Unexplainable and untraceable actions Reproducibility Redundant actions P29 Technical Specialist Finance & Banking Transparency and Explainability Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Unexplainable and untraceable actions Lack of AI agent transparency Incomplete AI agent evaluation Mitigation and maintenance P30 Demand Strategist Sales & Marketing Performance and Testing Reliability and Safety Privacy Protection and Security Redundant actions Function calling hallucination Reproducibility Attack on AI agents’ external resources Mitigation and maintenance P31 Research Scientist Corporate Services Reliability and Safety Performance and Testing Accountability AI agent compliance Incomplete AI agent evaluation Accountability of AI agent actions Mitigation and maintenance Redundant actions P32 Research Scientist Sales & Marketing Accountability Performance and Testing Privacy Protection and Security Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools AI agent compliance Redundant actions Reproducibility P33 AI Engineer Government & Public Sector Transparency and Explainability Performance and Testing Human-centred Values Redundant actions Reproducibility Incomplete AI agent evaluation Unexplainable and untraceable actions Over- or under-reliance on AI agents P34 Research Scientist Information Technology Privacy Protection and Security Performance and Testing Accountability Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user Accountability of AI agent actions AI agent compliance Mitigation and maintenance P35 Research Scientist Information Technology Privacy Protection and Security Reliability and Safety Accountability Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with user AI agent compliance Sharing IP/PI/confidential information with tools Exploit trust mismatch Attack on AI agents’ external resources