RangeFactory: Scalable Construction of Multi-Hop Cyber Ranges
Hanlin Jiang1, Puyi Wang1, Jiandong Jin1, Shaofei Li1, Zhan Shen1, Pengli Wang1, Ziming Wang1,
Yifeng Cai1, Ning Jia2, Yuxin Ren2, Peng Jiang3, Yao Guo1, Ding Li1∗
1Key Laboratory of High Confidence Software Technologies, Peking University, Ministry of Education
2Huawei Technologies Co., Ltd.
3Southeast University
Abstract
Real-world cyberattacks often require sustained progress
across multiple hosts and network segments, making multi-
hop cyber ranges essential infrastructure for studying and
improving LLM agents’ ability to sustain complete attack
chains. Prior work has scaled isolated vulnerability tasks
and constructed multi-host scenarios from manually speci-
fied vulnerability semantics. However, they are still unable to
automatically orchestrate the growing supply of vulnerabil-
ity environments into end-to-end validated multi-hop ranges.
To this end, we present RangeFactory, an automated cyber-
range orchestration framework that constructs multi-hop cy-
ber ranges at scale from isolated vulnerability environments.
RangeFactory formulates range construction as dependency
resolution: it extracts dependency information from agents’
actual attacks against real vulnerabilities, resolves known de-
pendencies through template-guided orchestration, and uses
end-to-end attack execution to validate runtime dependencies
that emerge after composition.
Using RangeFactory, we construct RangeBench with 1,148
validated range instances spanning 287 distinct attack chains
and evaluate frontier attack agents across attack depth, net-
work scale, and task information. Among runs that compro-
mise the entry vulnerability, 24.5–47.0% still fail to complete
the remaining attack path, revealing a substantial sustained-
compromise gap between establishing an initial foothold and
completing a multi-hop attack. RangeFactory further produces
a corpus of 5,541 outcome-annotated multi-hop attack trajec-
tories, providing execution data for attack-process analysis and
future agent training.
1
Introduction
Large language model agents are evolving from execut-
ing isolated instructions to autonomously completing long-
horizon tasks in complex environments. This trend is ex-
tending agent autonomy to cybersecurity, where real-world
intrusions often require sustained progress across multiple
network positions (Deng et al. 2024; Fang et al. 2024). A cy-
ber range is an interactive network environment for executing
and validating cyberattacks; a multi-hop cyber range further
requires an attacker to use footholds established by earlier
compromises to reach targets in distinct network segments.
Such environments therefore provide the infrastructure for
∗Corresponding author.
systematically studying whether attack agents can sustain
multi-hop compromise (Folkerts et al. 2026).
Prior work has developed two classes of resources for eval-
uating attack agents. One line scales the conversion of real
vulnerabilities into executable single-vulnerability tasks, but
each task ends at an isolated exploit and cannot evaluate
sustained compromise across network positions (Luo et al.
2026). Another line uses multi-host cyber ranges to evalu-
ate end-to-end attacks, but existing benchmarks depend on a
small collection of expert-designed, fixed scenarios (Liu et al.
2026). Automated scenario-generation systems can expand
environment deployment, yet still require experts to specify
cross-vulnerability dependencies in advance (Skandylas and
Asplund 2026). As a result, existing works cannot automat-
ically set up the environments that support complete attack
chains. Therefore, this paper addresses how to automatically
transform the growing supply of single-vulnerability envi-
ronments into multi-hop cyber ranges with executable end-
to-end attack paths.
The central challenge in this transformation is automati-
cally making independently exploitable vulnerabilities exe-
cute consecutively within one attack. This requires resolving
both capability and runtime dependencies. A capability de-
pendency determines whether adjacent attacks can connect;
for example, file-read access cannot support a subsequent
exploit that requires command execution. A runtime depen-
dency determines whether the concrete attack procedure can
operate from its new foothold; for example, a network policy
may block an exploit’s callback (Nguyen et al. 2025). Di-
rectly composing vulnerability environments and executing
every combination creates a rapidly growing candidate space.
Dependency-guided orchestration can eliminate known de-
pendency conflicts before deployment, while conditions in-
troduced by joint deployment still require complete attack ex-
ecution. Scalable construction therefore first composes can-
didates whose dependencies can connect and then executes
each end to end to confirm that the path remains feasible.
Based on this observation, we present RangeFactory,
a multi-agent system that automatically transforms iso-
lated vulnerability environments into validated multi-hop
cyber ranges. RangeFactory views range construction as a
dependency-resolution process: it characterizes dependen-
cies through actual attacks, resolves them through scenario
orchestration, and validates the resulting runtime conditions
arXiv:2608.09526v1  [cs.CR]  10 Aug 2026


through end-to-end execution. Atomization agents attack
each CVE environment and probe its post-exploitation capa-
bilities, producing a CVE Capability Atom with dependency
information and a reusable attack procedure. Orchestration
agents generate attack-path templates and bind compatible
Atoms, after which Validation agents execute the complete
attack against hidden objectives. Diagnostic feedback sup-
ports attack retries and subsequent path construction. Every
retained range thereby contains a path successfully exercised
during construction.
Using 239 CVE Capability Atoms and 20 enterprise-style
network configurations, RangeFactory produces 1,840 candi-
date range instances. End-to-end validation retains 1,148 in-
stances spanning 287 distinct ordered attack chains, for a val-
idation rate of 62.4%. We organize them into RangeBench
and evaluate frontier attack agents across attack depth, net-
work scale, and taskinformation.The resultsrevealasubstan-
tial sustained-compromise gap: success on an entry vulner-
ability does not reliably translate into completing the attack
when the same path is extended across additional network
layers. Beyond evaluation, RangeFactory constructs a corpus
of 5,541 outcome-annotated multi-hop interaction trajecto-
ries from the same ranges. Validated demonstrations and
autonomous outcomes share verifier-derived milestone an-
notations that may support future attack-agent training.
Our contributions are summarized as follows:
• RangeFactory. We introduce an automated multi-
agent framework that derives vulnerability dependencies
through actual attacks and combines orchestration with
end-to-end validation to construct multi-hop cyber ranges
at scale.
• RangeBench and Empirical Findings. We construct
RangeBench with 1,148 validated range instances span-
ning 287 distinct attack chains and systematically study
how attack depth, network scale, and task information
affect frontier attack agents, revealing a substantial gap
between early compromise and sustained multi-hop com-
promise.
• Outcome-Annotated Attack Trajectories. We collect a
corpus of 5,541 multi-hop trajectories pairing validated
demonstrations with autonomous outcomes on the same
ranges, with verifier-derived milestone annotations that
may support future attack-agent training.
2
Related Work
Executable Cybersecurity Tasks and Agent Data.
Re-
cent work has transformed real vulnerabilities into executable
tasks, grounding cyber-agent evaluation in actual interac-
tion (Zhu et al. 2025; Wang et al. 2026). Automated vul-
nerability reproduction further converts sparse CVE meta-
data into complete single-vulnerability task packages (Ullah
et al. 2026; Luo et al. 2026). Complementary benchmark
efforts package professional CTF and penetration-testing
challenges as reproducible interactive environments (Shao
et al. 2024; Zhang et al. 2025). Beyond benchmark con-
struction, cybersecurity-agent data have been scaled from
CTF artifacts: runtime-free methods synthesize trajectories
from writeups, while execution-grounded platforms collect
verified rollouts from containerized challenges (Zhuo et al.
2025a,b). These resources remain centered on individual
vulnerabilities or challenges. Multi-host cyber-range bench-
marks evaluate how agents expand an initial foothold across
a network, but rely on a small, fixed collection of ranges (Liu
et al. 2026, 2025). RangeFactory addresses this environmen-
tal bottleneck and collects outcome-annotated multi-hop in-
teractions as a downstream artifact of range construction and
evaluation.
Automated Cyber-Range Construction.
A separate line
of work automates cyber-range construction. Attack-graph
methods derive multi-host attack chains from formal sys-
tem models (Ou et al. 2005). Cyber-range generators instan-
tiate expert-authored scenario models (Pham et al. 2016;
Schreuders et al. 2017), while model-driven approaches sup-
port automated deployment validation (Costa, Russo, and
Armando 2022; Russo, Costa, and Armando 2020). LLM-
based systems further translate natural-language range re-
quirements into platform-specific configurations and deploy-
ment artifacts (Lupinacci et al. 2025; Rizos et al. 2025), while
constraint-based synthesis uses model finding and capability
semantics to generate enterprise scenarios at scale (Skandy-
las and Asplund 2026). These approaches automate cyber-
range construction once authored scenario descriptions or
predefined composition semantics are available, but adding
a new vulnerability still requires its attack dependencies to
be specified in advance. RangeFactory obtains these depen-
dencies from successful attacks against existing vulnerability
environments, uses them to orchestrate candidate chains, and
then executes each deployed chain end to end to detect unre-
solved runtime incompatibilities introduced by composition.
3
System Design
3.1
Insight and Overview
Deploying independently exploitable CVE environments to-
gether does not yield a valid multi-hop attack chain unless
both capability and runtime dependencies hold. A capability
dependency concerns what an attack requires and produces:
a preceding compromise must provide the capability needed
by the next exploit. File-read access, for example, cannot sup-
port an exploit that requires command execution. A runtime
dependency concerns whether the concrete attack procedure
can operate from its new execution position. A blocked re-
verse connection or a missing tool on the compromised host
can prevent exploitation even when the capability interface
matches. Either violation breaks the consecutive execution
of otherwise exploitable CVEs.
RangeFactory views multi-hop range construction as de-
pendency resolution: actual attacks characterize dependen-
cies, orchestration resolves them, and end-to-end execution
confirms candidate-chain executability. Single-vulnerability
attacks reveal the capabilities required and produced and
record the runtime requirements observed during exploita-
tion. Orchestration connects consecutive capabilities and
uses the network template to constrain known runtime de-
pendencies. Because the new footholds and joint deployment
can introduce conditions that were absent from the single-
vulnerability environment, RangeFactory then executes the


Field
Semantics
Capability Interface
exploit_access Structured preconditions: attack vector,
privilege, and service protocol/port.
capability_
grants
Verified post capability from a fixed
ontology, with principal and evidence.
Execution Artifacts
exploit_guide
Successful procedure with tool, material,
authentication, and callback
requirements.
poc_materials
Exploit artifacts referenced by
exploit_guide.
Table 1: Description of CVE Capability Atom fields.
complete attack to expose remaining conflicts. This division
prunes clearly infeasible compositions before deployment
while retaining only chains successfully exercised after com-
position.
Figure 1 presents RangeFactory’s multi-agent workflow.
Atomization produces CVE Capability Atoms, Orchestration
binds them into candidate ranges, and Validation exercises
the complete attack before acceptance. Diagnostic feedback
is routed to attack execution for bounded retry or to chain
construction as persistent incompatibility evidence.
3.2
CVE Capability Atom
RangeFactory represents each successfully attacked vul-
nerability environment as a CVE Capability Atom, which
binds the deployable environment to dependency information
and execution artifacts. Table 1 summarizes its four fields.
exploit_access records the structured conditions under
which the exploit was exercised. capability_grants
binds each verified post-compromise capability to the com-
promised principal and its evidence; only verified grants
participate in orchestration. A grant’s host scope is as-
signed when the Atom is bound to a template position.
exploit_guide preserves the validated procedure and
observed runtime requirements, while referenced PoC files
are packaged as poc_materials. The interface supports
dependency matching, and the execution artifacts allow the
vulnerability to be exercised again in a composed range.
The capability ontology represents command execu-
tion execute_command, file access read_file and
write_file, network position network_vantage,
credential discovery read_credential, and authenti-
cation authenticate. For example, when exploit_
access requires an internal service, the preceding compro-
mise must provide network_vantage. A TCP callback
requirement is instead recorded in exploit_guide for
runtime compatibility checking. Capability matching uses
only grants confirmed by probes, avoiding chains supported
by an Agent’s unverified inference. Runtime dependencies
vary with the composed environment and cannot be com-
pletely exposed by a single-vulnerability attack, so the Atom
records observed requirements and leaves the remainder to
end-to-end validation.
3.3
Atomization
Exploiter.
RangeFactory deploys a reproducible vulnera-
bility environment, configures a private objective aligned
with the vulnerability impact, and provides the Exploiter with
its reproduction context and available exploit materials. The
Exploiter adapts the attack according to environment feed-
back, while an independent verifier confirms success against
the private objective. After a successful attack, it distills the
procedure, exploit conditions, and observed runtime depen-
dencies into exploit_guide. This establishes for every
Atom an execution-confirmed attack for subsequent range
construction.
Explorer.
Reaching the vulnerability objective confirms
its expected security impact; orchestration also needs to
know which subsequent actions that impact enables. The
Explorer therefore reuses the Exploiter’s environment and
established foothold, selecting capability probes according
to the available access mechanism and probe feedback. For
example, it directs the compromised host to a designated
endpoint to confirm network_vantage. Only capabili-
ties confirmed by probes and their corresponding principals
enter capability_grants. This process converts het-
erogeneous vulnerability impacts into a uniform interface
for subsequent orchestration.
3.4
Orchestrator
Generator.
The Generator transforms public architecture
references into parameterized enterprise-style templates.
Each template defines the network structure and commu-
nication policies and marks an attack-chain skeleton from an
external entry point to the final objective. It reserves one CVE
slot in every traversed layer and independently parameter-
izes background business assets to control the search space.
For example, a three-tier template can traverse a DMZ, an
internal application network, and a data network. The tem-
plate fixes chain structure and network-dependent constraints
while keeping Atom selection open.
Composer.
The Composer takes a scenario template and
a library of verified Atoms as input and constructs candi-
date bindings in attack-chain order. For each CVE slot, it
retrieves Atoms whose service requirements are compatible
with the template position and checks whether the capa-
bilities accumulated at preceding positions satisfy the next
Atom’s exploit_access. After each binding, the Com-
poser associates the Atom’s capability_grants with
the current network position and updates the capability set
through fixed closure rules. For example, verified command
execution can support file access and network vantage under
the same principal. A partial chain is pruned as soon as a de-
pendency is violated, after which the Composer backtracks
to another Atom.
Beyond capability dependencies, the Composer combines
the network template with exploit_guide to check run-
time requirements that can be determined before deployment,
such as the attack’s execution position and material delivery.
The concrete exploit procedure and runtime dependencies
that emerge only in the composed environment are left to


Stage 2: ORCHESTRATION
Stage 3: VALIDATION
CVE-A: Web RCE
CVE-B: App Exploit
CVE-C: Data Exploit
Enterprise Network Template
Internet
DMZ
Internal Network
Data Network
Slot 1:
Web Server
Slot 2:
App Server
Slot 3:
Data Server
Atom Library
···
CAPABILITY MATCHING
KNOWN RUNTIME CHECKS
DMZ
Web Server
Atom A
Internal
App Server
Atom B
Data
Data Server
Atom C
Diagnoser
Atom A
Req: Internet + web
Grants: Shell + 
Internal Access
Atom B
Requires: Internal 
Access
Grants: RCE + Cred.
Atom C
Requires: Credential
Grants: Data Access
Stage 1: ATOMIZATION
Explorer
Guide
Reqs Grants
POCs
Exploiter
Generator
Atom A
Atom B
Atom C
Atom D
Atom E
Atom A
Atom B
Atom C
Composer
Executor
Deployed Range
1
Exploit Web
2
Pivot & Exploit
3
Access Data
Attack Host
Validated Trajectory
Accepted Range
         Private Verifier
Bounded Retry
Binding / Runtime Issue
+ Environment Evidence
Failed Trajectory
Execution Issue
Candidate Range
Internal Access: Grant → Req. 
Credential: Grant → Req. 
Figure 1: Overview of RangeFactory’s multi-agent workflow for constructing validated multi-hop cyber ranges.
end-to-end execution. Once all slots are bound, the Composer
forms an attack graph whose nodes are Atom-bound template
positions and whose edges are dependency-satisfying attack
transitions. When the candidate set is large, it prioritizes
chains that expand coverage of Atom and asset configura-
tions. The output records Atom bindings, capability transi-
tions, and deployment parameters for range instantiation and
validation.
3.5
Validation
Executor.
After deployment, RangeFactory checks that all
nodes and services operate under the network configura-
tion defined by the template. The Executor accesses each
Atom’s execution artifacts, organizes the per-hop exploits
into an end-to-end attack, and adapts them as the foothold
and runtime environment change. A verifier independently
checks the ordered private objectives hidden from the Execu-
tor. Only a candidate that completes the end-to-end attack is
accepted; the complete trajectory and verification result are
retained, while failed executions are passed to the Diagnoser.
Diagnoser.
The Diagnoser locates the failed step from the
trajectory and environment evidence and distinguishes at-
tack execution from chain composition failures. An execu-
tion failure is returned to the Executor for a bounded retry
that preserves the current context. An unsatisfied runtime
dependency instead filters the candidate and produces an in-
compatibility record associated with the binding conditions.
The Composer retrieves these records during later orches-
tration, allowing evidence from validated failures to improve
subsequent candidate generation.
4
Experiment
4.1
Scalable and Reliable Construction of
Multi-Hop Ranges
Setup.
To evaluate whether RangeFactory can construct
multi-hop cyber ranges at scale, we automatically screen and
deduplicate vulnerability resources from Vulhub and CVE-
Factory (Vulhub 2026; Luo et al. 2026). Eligible resources
must provide a deployable network service and allow the
Stage
Transformation
Atomization
257 candidates →239 Atoms (93.0% successful)
Orchestration
23,789 prop. →1,840 cand. (92.3% filtered)
Validation
1,840 cand. →1,148 ranges (62.4% validated)
Table 2: Stage-wise construction and validation results. Prop.
and cand. denote proposals and candidates.
vulnerability impact to be verified through network inter-
action. This process yields 257 Atomization candidates, of
which 239 are successfully converted into CVE Capability
Atoms (93.0%); the remaining failures arise from missing
build artifacts or unstable reproduction. These Atoms cover
122 products and CVEs disclosed between 2010 and 2026.
Given public architecture references and the requested scale,
the Generator produces five three-tier enterprise-style tem-
plates without manual CVE binding or chain construction.
Each places one vulnerable node per tier, yielding an en-
try compromise and two pivots. Although the representa-
tion accepts variable-length attack chains, three tiers provide
matched one-, two-, and three-hop measurements within the
same complete range. Four background-asset scales produce
20 configurations spanning small to medium-sized networks.
All construction agents use DeepSeek-V4-Pro; validation re-
ceives the Atom execution artifacts, 300 turns, and a one-hour
timeout. Source selection and the choice of architecture refer-
ences are one-time dataset preparation. RangeFactory instan-
tiates private objectives and capability probes from reusable
adapters, then performs Atomization, CVE binding, deploy-
ment, and end-to-end validation without per-range expert
annotation or chain design.
Construction Scale and Coverage.
Given 239 CVE Capa-
bility Atoms and 20 scenario configurations, the Composer
examines 23,789 CVE binding proposals. It rejects 21,949
proposals whose capability or runtime dependencies cannot
be satisfied and produces 1,840 candidate range instances,
pruning 92.3% before deployment. The candidates form 460
matched groups that instantiate the same template and Atom


chain at four network scales. End-to-end validation retains
287 groups, each associated with a distinct ordered Atom
chain, yielding 1,148 range instances that cover 213 Atoms,
113 products, and all 20 configurations. Each chain is instan-
tiated in four matched network contexts whose background
assets differ in scale and composition. The resulting bench-
mark therefore separatesattack-chain diversity from variation
in the surrounding network.
Execution Grounding.
RangeFactory deploys and vali-
dates the 1,840 candidate range instances, of which 1,148
complete an end-to-end attack and pass private-objective ver-
ification, for an overall validation success rate of 62.4%. Each
candidate directly reuses the vulnerability environments and
execution artifacts packaged in its Atoms; instantiating it and
completing the first validation pass takes 16.2 minutes on av-
erage. Because Atomization is performed once for each vul-
nerability environment, its outputs can be reused across many
candidate ranges without repeating the single-vulnerability
attack.
Construction Quality.
Scale alone does not establish con-
struction quality. We therefore randomly sample 150 ac-
cepted ranges for an independent audit that checks whether
the injected vulnerability preserves its original security im-
pact and whether the Atom’s access and capability fields
agree with the observed attack states. Among the audited
ranges, 146 (97.3%) preserve the source vulnerability be-
havior and 142 (94.7%) agree with the Atom annotations.
Separately, every retained range has an attack witness that
completes its ordered private objectives; this constructive
evidence does not assert the absence of other valid attack
chains. The audit supports preservation of vulnerability be-
havior and dependency semantics.
4.2
RangeBench: Evaluating Multi-Hop Attack
Agents
Benchmark Design.
We organize 1,148 end-to-end vali-
dated range instances—287 distinct ordered attack chains,
each instantiated in four matched network contexts—into
RangeBench to study sustained execution, exploration, and
prior knowledge. A private objective on each vulnerable node
defines matched one-, two-, and three-hop success within the
same rollout: reaching the first objective is one-hop success,
reaching the first two in order is two-hop success, and reach-
ing all three is end-to-end success. Deeper layers become
reachable only after the preceding foothold, so the mea-
surements share an identical entry vulnerability and chain
prefix. Each chain also has none, low, medium, and high
scale variants with approximately 7, 12, 31, and 50 visi-
ble nodes. Atom bindings and task information remain fixed
within each group; only background business assets vary. Fi-
nally, L0 provides the entry address and objective, L1 adds
network topology, and L2 adds target services, CVE map-
pings, and required credentials. No level provides PoCs or
Exploit Guides.
Evaluation Setup.
We evaluate Kimi-K3, GLM-5.2,
DeepSeek-V4-Pro, and GPT-5.6-Luna through a common
Model
End-to-End
Success
Chain
Progress
Tool
Calls
Time
(min)
Kimi-K3
55.7
64.6
138
44.6
GLM-5.2
41.2
51.2
145
46.8
DeepSeek-V4-Pro
36.2
46.2
152
48.5
GPT-5.6-Luna
23.5
32.9
86
27.4
Table 3: Overall performance on RangeBench under L2 task
information. End-to-end success and chain progress are per-
centages; tool calls and time are medians.
task interface. We execute one rollout for every model–
range–condition pair and expose the same task prompt and
attack tools, with a budget of 300 turns and one hour per
run. Kimi-K3 uses temperature 1, the minimum supported
by its endpoint; the other models use temperature 0, and
all other sampling parameters retain their provider defaults.
Transient API errors are retried and infrastructure failures re-
run; refusals, early termination, and budget exhaustion count
as failures. Evaluation agents cannot access Atom execution
artifacts. The results characterize pass@1 across the com-
plete balanced benchmark rather than within-task sampling
variance.
Metrics.
End-to-end success is the fraction of runs whose
final objective is verified. Hop-k success is the fraction that
consecutively completes the first k objectives. Chain progress
divides the deepest verified hop in each run by the required
chain length and averages this fraction across runs. We report
median tool calls and wall-clock time as interaction cost: the
former measures the amount of agent exploration, while the
latter captures the resulting execution cost.
Overall Performance.
Table 3 shows substantial separa-
tion among the models even under L2, where target services
and their CVEs are provided. Kimi-K3 leads at 55.7% end-to-
end success, followed by GLM-5.2 at 41.2% and DeepSeek-
V4-Pro at 36.2%. GPT-5.6-Luna reaches 23.5%, with median
interaction costs of 86 tool calls and 27.4 minutes, substan-
tially below the other models. Its lower success therefore
coincides with earlier termination and less extensive explo-
ration on difficult attacks.
Attack Depth.
Figure 2(a) uses the private objectives
placed along the three network layers to evaluate the same
executions at successive depths. Because the measurements
share an identical chain prefix and deeper services be-
come reachable only after the preceding foothold, differences
across depths cannot be attributed to a harder entry vulnera-
bility. Kimi-K3 reaches the first, second, and third objectives
in 73.8%, 64.2%, and 55.7% of trials, respectively. GLM-
5.2 declines from 62.8% to 41.2%, DeepSeek-V4-Pro from
57.8% to 36.2%, and GPT-5.6-Luna from 44.3% to 23.5%.
Conditioned on reaching the first objective, only 75.5%,
65.6%, 62.6%, and 53.0% of runs complete the full chain
for Kimi-K3, GLM-5.2, DeepSeek-V4-Pro, and GPT-5.6-
Luna, respectively. Thus, 24.5–47.0% of runs that establish
an initial foothold still fail on later compromises, revealing a
sustained-compromise gap that accumulates with depth.


1
2
3
Required hops
0
20
40
60
80
100
Success rate (%)
73.8
64.2
55.7
62.8
49.6
41.2
57.8
44.6
36.2
44.3
31.0
23.5
(a) Attack depth (L2)
L0
L1
L2
Information level
0
20
40
60
80
100
E2E success rate (%)
15.4
20.1
55.7
10.8
14.9
41.2
8.1
11.7
36.2
4.5
6.6
23.5
(b) Task information
Kimi-K3
GLM-5.2
DeepSeek-V4-Pro
GPT-5.6-Luna
Figure 2: RangeBench factor analysis across four attack agents. (a) Success at successive attack depths under L2 information.
(b) End-to-end success under different task-information levels.
Task Information.
Figure 2(b) compares all four models
under the three information levels. End-to-end success in-
creases from 15.4% under L0 and 20.1% under L1 to 55.7%
under L2 for Kimi-K3. GLM-5.2 improves from 10.8% and
14.9% to 41.2%, while DeepSeek-V4-Pro rises from 8.1%
and 11.7% to 36.2%. GPT-5.6-Luna follows the same pat-
tern at 4.5%, 6.6%, and 23.5%. L0 and L1 produce only
a modest difference, whereas L2 substantially improves all
four models. The best model nevertheless fails on nearly
half of the ranges, showing that richer task information does
not eliminate the difficulty of sustained execution. Because
L2 identifies public CVEs, this comparison measures the
information package as a whole and may also reflect prior
familiarity with those vulnerabilities.
Network Scale.
Table 4 compares matched network-scale
variants under L2 information. From none to high, end-to-
end success decreases by 9.8–10.6 percentage points across
models. The interaction cost grows more strongly: median
tool calls increase by 51–74%, and execution time by 71–
84%. Enlarging the surrounding network therefore has a
moderate effect on final success but substantially increases
the effort spent exploring background assets.
4.3
Outcome-Annotated Attack Trajectories
Trajectory Collection.
RangeFactory organizes its vali-
dated ranges into an outcome-annotated trajectory corpus.
For each of the 1,148 range instances, we retain the guide-
assisted trajectory produced during construction and use
Kimi-K3, the strongest guide-free agent in Table 3, to collect
four autonomous rollouts: two under L2 and one under each
of L0 and L1. Each starts with a fresh context, uses the com-
mon attack interface, and runs for at most 300 turns or one
hour. This yields 5,740 raw trajectories spanning validated
demonstrations and autonomous exploration.
Trajectory Structure.
Each record preserves the task con-
text, Agent–tool interaction, execution budget, and prove-
nance, which identifies the range, collector, information
level, and guidance mode. Privileged execution artifacts and
verifier state remain outside the interaction stream. After ex-
Model
Metric
None
Low
Medium
High
Success Rate
60.8
57.3
53.9
50.2
Kimi-K3
Tool Calls
104
125
151
177
Time (min)
33.2
40.1
48.4
56.7
Success Rate
46.1
42.8
39.4
36.0
GLM-5.2
Tool Calls
110
133
159
189
Time (min)
34.4
42.2
50.6
60.0
Success Rate
40.9
37.6
34.1
30.6
DeepSeek-V4-Pro
Tool Calls
114
139
168
198
Time (min)
35.7
44.2
53.5
63.7
Success Rate
29.0
25.8
22.5
19.2
GPT-5.6-Luna
Tool Calls
70
80
94
106
Time (min)
19.0
23.0
29.0
35.0
Table 4: Effect of network scale under L2 information. None,
low, medium, and high contain approximately 7, 12, 31, and
50 agent-visible nodes. Success is the end-to-end success
rate; calls and time (minutes) are reported separately for
each model.
ecution, the verifier records the first completion turn of each
objective, the deepest verified hop, and the final outcome.
Shared range identifiers pair guide-assisted and autonomous
behavior on the same task, while milestone turns localize
where their outcomes diverge.
Quality Control.
Attack failure is not a filtering crite-
rion: a guide-free rollout is retained whenever its interaction
log is complete and the verifier can determine its progress.
Among the 5,740 raw trajectories, we remove 73 executions
interrupted by range deployment or runtime failures, 48 in-
complete interaction records, and 78 records duplicated by
collection-job retries. The resulting corpus contains 5,541
complete trajectories, separating unsuccessful attacks from
data-collection faults.


Context
Trajectories
End-to-End
Success
Partial
Progress
No
Progress
Guide-assisted
1,148
100.0
0.0
0.0
L2
2,215
55.7
18.0
26.3
L1
1,095
19.9
32.6
47.5
L0
1,083
15.1
31.2
53.7
Overall
5,541
49.9
19.7
30.4
Table 5: Outcome distribution of retained trajectories. Partial
progress denotes reaching at least one intermediate objec-
tive without completing the end-to-end attack; all outcome
columns report percentages.
Corpus Composition.
Table 5 shows that the corpus
combines reliable demonstrations with guide-free outcomes
across 287 ordered Atom chains and 213 Atoms. Approx-
imately half complete the full chain, while the remainder
capture partial or unsuccessful attacks. Verifier-labeled mile-
stones expose where progress stops on the same tasks and
may support future training from successful behavior and
outcome-aware contrasts. This work evaluates corpus struc-
ture and quality, not downstream training gains.
5
Analysis
Why Is Dependency-Guided Orchestration Necessary?
We compare four composition strategies on matched samples
drawn from the same Atom library and scenario templates.
Random binding ignores vulnerability semantics, metadata
matching uses CVE and service descriptions, capability
matching enforces the capability interface, and full orches-
tration also checks runtime requirements recorded during
Atomization. All strategies receive equal proposal and val-
idation budgets. Table 6 shows that environment validity
changes little, whereas end-to-end validity increases from
4.0% under random binding to 60.0% under full orches-
tration. Capability information provides the largest gain,
and observed runtime requirements further remove conflicts
with template constraints. Dependency-guided orchestration
therefore improves candidates before expensive attack exe-
cution.
Why Is End-to-End Validation Necessary?
We exam-
ine the 200 candidates produced by full orchestration in
more detail. Of these, 190 pass the environment checks, but
only 89 complete the attack on the Executor’s first attempt.
Diagnosis-guided retries recover 31 additional attacks, yield-
ing 120 accepted ranges. Thus, environment-only validation
would accept 70 candidates for which no end-to-end attack is
established by the validation procedure. This gap marks the
boundary of orchestration: capability matching and template
constraints remove known dependency violations, while de-
ployment can expose runtime dependencies that only the
complete attack can test.
Validator Dependence.
RangeBench retains a candidate
only when the guided Executor completes its hidden end-to-
end objectives, providing a successful witness under a fixed
Composition Strategy
Environment
Valid
End-to-End
Valid
Random binding
88.5
4.0
Metadata matching
91.0
13.5
Capability matching
94.0
43.5
Full orchestration
95.0
60.0
Table 6: Composition ablation on matched 200-proposal
samples. Both columns report percentages.
validation protocol. Rejected candidates are not labeled in-
valid, and the accepted set is not assumed unbiased. Evalua-
tion withholds Exploit Guides, construction trajectories, and
verifier state, and all models receive identical task informa-
tion. DeepSeek-V4-Pro nevertheless ranks below Kimi-K3
and GLM-5.2, indicating no trivial advantage from its con-
struction role. To estimate false rejection, Kimi-K3 revali-
dates 150 DeepSeek-V4-Pro rejections under the same arti-
facts, tools, and budget and recovers 12 (8.0%). We therefore
report pass@1 conditional on this protocol-validated task
distribution.
How Does Diagnosis Improve Range Construction?
We
isolate the two effects of the Diagnoser with equal-budget
controls. For the 77 failures attributed to attack execution,
an additional 100 turns without diagnostic guidance recover
14 attacks, whereas diagnosis-guided retry recovers 31. This
feedback is local to the candidate and helps the Executor re-
vise a difficult attack. Composition failures have a persistent
effect: without incompatibility memory, 21 of 24 identified
conflicts recur in a subsequent batch; retrieving the Diag-
noser’s records reduces recurrence to eight. Diagnosis there-
fore improves the current validation attempt through targeted
retry and subsequent orchestration through accumulated ev-
idence about incompatible bindings.
6
Conclusion
We present RangeFactory, a multi-agent framework that con-
structs multi-hop cyber ranges from isolated vulnerability
environments. It recovers capability and observable runtime
dependencies from actual attacks, resolves them through or-
chestration, and validates remaining runtime dependencies
end to end. RangeBench comprises 1,148 validated range in-
stances spanning 287 attack chains and reveals a sustained-
compromise gap after the entry foothold. Richer task infor-
mation improves success, whereas larger networks increase
interaction cost. RangeFactory also produces 5,541 outcome-
annotated trajectories for systematic evaluation and future
training research. Our evaluation focuses on CVE-centric lin-
ear attack chains in containerized enterprise-style networks.
Impact Statement
RangeFactory executes only publicly disclosed vulnerabil-
ities in isolated, authorized ranges without real credentials
or third-party targets. Exploit Guides, PoCs, and complete
trajectories are separated from evaluation resources and re-
leased under a controlled, research-only policy.


A
Scope and Reading Guide
This appendix provides formal data contracts, matching and
validation procedures, dataset accounting, and additional
evaluation details for RangeFactory.
Sections B–D expand Sections 3.1–3.5 of the main text.
Sections E and F provide additional details for Section 4.
Section G gives non-operational examples illustrating the
boundary between orchestration and validation. Section H
describes the security, ethics, and release controls of this
work.
Terminology.
An attack chain is an ordered sequence of
compromises whose intermediate results enable later com-
promises. A range instance is one deployed realization of an
attack chain inside a network template. Four matched net-
work contexts may therefore share an ordered Atom chain
while containing different background assets. We reserve
proposal for a partial or complete slot binding examined
before deployment and candidate range for a complete bind-
ing emitted for deployment and validation. The benchmark
reported in the main text uses three-slot linear chains; the
schema can represent a more general acyclic dependency
graph, but branching and merging chains are outside the re-
ported experiments.
B
Formal Objects and Dependency Model
B.1
Capability and Runtime Dependencies
For an Atom a, P(a) denotes normalized exploit precon-
ditions and G(a) denotes post-exploitation grants. A prefix
state satisfies an Atom when it provides the capabilities, as-
sets, identity, and reachability required at its bound slot:
Σ |= P(a, s),
(1)
where s is the bound template slot and Σ is the state accumu-
lated by the preceding chain prefix. A file-read grant alone,
for example, does not satisfy a requirement for command
execution or an internal network vantage.
We represent a capability grant as
g = ⟨t, σ, p, e, r⟩,
(2)
where t is the capability type, σ is its host, network, or
asset scope, p is the principal, e is the evidence level, and r
references the supporting probe or execution evidence. Only
grants with e = verified can satisfy a precondition or
seed deterministic closure rules. Host scope, principal, and
network scope are distinct: a command may run on one host
without granting access to every network in the range.
A runtime dependency is a condition under which the con-
crete exploit remains executable after composition. Some are
decidable from the slot and template before deployment; oth-
ers emerge only after joint deployment. Orchestration checks
the former, while end-to-end execution tests the latter.
B.2
CVE Capability Atom
The main text presents four Atom interfaces; the complete
object also contains the deployable vulnerability environ-
ment:
A = ⟨E, P, C, G, M⟩,
(3)
where E is a reproducible environment, P is exploit_
access and contains the normalized exploit preconditions,
C is the set of capability_grants, G is exploit_
guide, and M is the referenced set of poc_materials.
Environment provenance, readiness checks, and verification
results are retained with E; they are not additional composi-
tion interfaces.
B.3
Capability Ontology and Scope
Table 8 lists the current closed ontology. The ontology in-
tentionally represents only capabilities that affect compo-
sition; vulnerability taxonomies such as CWE and MITRE
ATT&CK remain descriptive metadata and do not substitute
for verified capability grants.
An Atom grant uses symbolic scope before composition.
Binding Atom Ai to slot sj resolves that scope while pre-
serving its principal and evidence:
BindScope(Ci, sj) = {Bind(g, sj) : g ∈Ci},
Bind(⟨t, σ, p, e, r⟩, sj) = ⟨t, Scope(σ, sj), p, e, r⟩.
(4)
Scope resolution does not create a capability. Fixed closure
rules may derive capabilities only within the permissions and
attached networks declared by the template. For the current
schema,
Exech,p ⇒{Readh,p,F , Neth,p,Z},
(5)
where F and Z are the files and networks allowed by the
template. Credentials and authentication are not implied by
command execution. A file or credential asset becomes avail-
able only when its host, principal, and access policy match
the current state. No free-form Agent inference is used in this
closure.
B.4
Sanitized Atom Example
Listing 1 is a fictional, non-operational example. It shows the
relation among the fields without identifying a real vulnera-
bility, address, credential, or executable payload.
C
Scenario Template and Composition
C.1
Scenario Template
A scenario template is
T = ⟨N, S, D, Γ, O, B⟩,
(6)
where N is the network topology and communication pol-
icy, S the CVE slots, D ⊆S × S an acyclic dependency
relation, Γ per-slot constraints, O private objectives, and
B background assets and services. The template fixes the
attack-chain skeleton but leaves CVE binding open; an edge
(si, sj) ∈D means that sj depends on si. In the benchmark,
D is the path s1 →s2 →s3.
C.2
Prefix State and Compatibility
Composer summarizes the result of the first i bound slots as
Σi = ⟨Hi, Ki, Qi, Ri⟩,
(7)
where Hi contains established footholds, Ki scoped verified
capabilities, Qi available credentials and other assets, and Ri


Object
Field
Type / Constraint
Role
Environment E
runtime
Image or self-contained build context;
target service and readiness
declaration
Reconstructs the vulnerable service
without relying on a host-local absolute
path.
exploit_access
P
attack_vector
Controlled string; current ranges use
network-originated interaction
States the origin from which the exploit
can be exercised.
privileges_
required
Privilege requirement and optional
principal constraint; none when
unauthenticated
Records the access level and identity
required before exploitation.
required_service
Protocol, port, and target service
Binds the exploit to the service interface
used by matching and reachability checks.
capability_
grants C
type
Member of the ontology in Table 8
States a post-compromise capability.
principal
Compromised identity
Prevents a capability obtained as one
identity from being silently attributed to
another.
scope
Symbolic host, network, file, service,
or asset scope
Limits where the grant can satisfy a later
precondition.
evidence_level
verified, inferred, or
declared
Only verified grants participate in
composition.
evidence_ref
Reference to the corresponding probe
or native execution evidence
Links a grant to its verification
provenance.
exploit_guide
G
target and preconditions
Placeholder-based service description
Carries the successful native procedure
into a new range without retaining native
addresses.
ordered steps
Acyclic step identifiers, success
signals, and execution scopes
Gives the Executor a reusable procedure
while leaving adaptation to the Agent.
requirements
Tool, material, authentication, and
callback declarations
Records runtime dependencies observed
during the native attack.
post-exploit state
Principal, capabilities, and optional
reusable command channel
Cross-checks the Guide against verified
Atom grants.
poc_materials
M
material manifest
Relative paths inside the Atom source
bundle with a visibility policy
Makes required artifacts reproducible and
prevents undeclared host-file or network
dependencies.
Table 7: Expanded CVE Capability Atom schema. The four interfaces in the main text are shown together with the deployable
environment to clarify the full object consumed by RangeFactory.
services reachable from those footholds under the template
policy. For a slot s, Atom a, and prefix state Σ, the hard
composition gate is
Compatible(s, a, Σ) ≡V (a) ∧S(s, a) ∧D(s, Σ)
∧Σ |= P(a, s)
∧O(s, a) ∧U(s, a).
(8)
V requires a verified Atom; S matches its service with the
slot; and D requires predecessor slots to be resolved. The sat-
isfaction relation checks the Atom’s required capability, prin-
cipal, credential, and network origin against Σ. O requires
the slot’s requested outputs to be a subset of verified grants. U
checks static runtime constraints, including material place-
ment and template communication policy. An absent Atom
declaration cannot satisfy a non-empty requirement.
The Guide supplies reusable execution artifacts. Its struc-
ture, materials, and static requirements are checked before
deployment; remaining runtime behavior stays a validation
obligation rather than an unverified fact.
C.3
Dependency-Constrained Composition
Algorithm 1 expands slots in dependency order, pruning in-
compatible bindings before deployment while keeping CVEs
unique and resolving service-dependent asset variants.
Output attack graph.
For a complete binding b : S →L,
Composer emits Gb = (Vb, Eb). Each vertex is a slot together
with its bound Atom; an edge follows the template depen-
dency relation and records the capability transition support-
ing that hop. The deployment manifest additionally contains
resolved services, asset variants, network placement, and pri-
vate objective references. The graph records the intended at-
tack chain and does not itself certify that the concrete exploits
will run after deployment.
Candidate selection.
When the compatible set exceeds
the construction budget, RangeFactory prioritizes uncovered
slot–Atom and asset-variant features, breaking ties by slot
usage and a stable identifier. This changes validation order,
not the compatibility predicate.


Capability
Meaning
execute_command Execute commands as the recorded
principal on the bound host.
read_file
Read files permitted to the recorded
principal on the bound host.
write_file
Write files permitted to the recorded
principal on the bound host.
network_vantage Originate network interactions from
networks attached to the bound host.
read_credential Obtain a credential represented as a
scenario asset.
authenticate
Establish authenticated access using an
acquired credential.
Table 8: Capability ontology used by the current Composer.
D
Atomization and Validation Protocol
D.1
Atomization Evidence
The Exploiter operates on a reproducible single-vulnerability
environment with public reproduction materials. Success is
established by a private objective aligned with the docu-
mented impact: a planted local marker is used only when
the impact permits marker retrieval, otherwise an impact-
specific assertion is used. The objective value and verifier-
side assertion are hidden from the Agent.
After a successful native attack, the Exploiter emits a nor-
malized Guide and the attack context needed by the Explorer.
The Explorer reuses the established foothold, proposes ca-
pability probes appropriate to that access mechanism, and
records only probe-confirmed outcomes as verified. An
inferred or declared capability may remain in the audit record
but cannot support composition.
Private objectives are instantiated by reusable impact-
specific adapters. Each identifies the expected actor, target,
state transition, and verifier-side assertion; an Agent tran-
script claim cannot replace the required transition. An unsup-
ported impact requires a new objective or capability-probe
adapter, which is an Atom-level extension rather than per-
range annotation.
D.2
Exploit Guide Integrity
An Exploit Guide is descriptive rather than a mechanically
parameterized attack script. The integrity checks require
unique and topologically ordered step identifiers, at least
one success signal, placeholder-based targets,source-bundle-
relative materials, and no external download requirement.
Guide-declared post capabilities must be a subset of verified
Atom grants. A reusable command channel additionally iden-
tifies the step that establishes it and provides an invocation
hint. These checks validate the Guide contract; native execu-
tion and range-level guided execution provide exploitability
evidence.
D.3
Layered Range Validation
Algorithm 2 separates environment correctness from attack
success so infrastructure faults are not counted as Agent
failures.
Listing 1: Sanitized CVE Capability Atom example.
1
cve_id: CVE-EXAMPLE-0001
2
environment:
3
image: local-range/example-service
4
service: {protocol: http, port: 8080}
5
readiness: tcp:8080
6
exploit_access:
7
attack_vector: network
8
origin: external
9
privileges_required: none
10
required_service: {protocol: http,
port: 8080}
11
capability_grants:
12
- type: execute_command
13
principal: service_user
14
scope: bound_host
15
evidence_level: verified
16
evidence_ref: capability-probe-01
17
exploit_guide:
18
target: {protocol: http, port: 8080}
19
steps:
20
- id: trigger
21
procedure: exercise the local
vulnerable endpoint
22
success_signal: command channel is
established
23
execution: {scope: actor,
external_download: false}
24
requirements:
25
tools: [local_http_client]
26
materials: [source_bundle/request-
template.bin]
27
authentication: none
28
callback: none
29
poc_materials:
30
- source_bundle/request-template.bin
The deterministic checks cover materialization, deploy-
ment, routing, service and asset setup, readiness, graph or-
dering, and predecessor connectivity. The Executor adapts
per-Atom procedures to composed footholds, while the pri-
vate verifier checks objective, actor, target, and order against
experiment state.
The acceptance rule is
Accept(r) ≡EnvironmentReady(r)
∧GraphValid(r)
∧ChainConnectivity(r)
∧GuidedWitness(r)
∧PrivateObjectives(r).
(9)
This rule provides constructive evidence that an accepted
range contains an executable end-to-end attack chain under
the validation protocol. Failure to obtain a witness does not
prove that no valid attack exists.
D.4
Failure Typing and Feedback
We distinguish infrastructure failures from attack outcomes.
Infrastructure failures are rerun according to the fixed retry
policy and are excluded from Agent-failure denominators;


Template object
Representative fields
Semantics
Network N
zones, routers, transits, isolation
rules
Defines where nodes are placed and which zone-to-zone
communications are permitted.
Slot s ∈S
zone, dependencies, service
access, required outputs, required
assets
Marks one unbound vulnerability position and the conditions an Atom
must satisfy at that position.
Dependency D
depends_on
Orders the slots; each downstream Atom separately declares the
capabilities and assets that its predecessor state must provide.
Assets
location, owner, readable
principals, service variant
Represents intermediate state whose availability may depend on an
acquired capability.
Objectives O
public goal, private assertion,
expected actor and target
Exposes the task goal while keeping the success oracle outside Agent
observations.
Background B
service role, zone, image,
exposed service
Changes the visible search space without entering the attack graph or
capability closure.
Table 9: Scenario-template objects used by Generator and Composer.
Algorithm 1: Dependency-Constrained Composition
Require: Template T , verified Atom library L, output cap
k
Ensure: Candidate set R
1: R ←∅; order slots topologically
2: initialize empty bindings b and entry state Σ0
3: Expand(1, b, Σ0)
4: return coverage-first selection of at most k candidates
5:
6: procedure Expand(i, b, Σ)
7: if i > |S| then
8:
if asset variants, objectives, and Guide references are
resolvable then
9:
add ⟨T , b, Σ⟩to R
10:
end if
11:
return
12: end if
13: s ←the i-th slot
14: for each a ∈L not already used by b do
15:
if Compatible(s, a, Σ) then
16:
F ←Closure(BindScope(Ca, s); T )
17:
Σ′ ←UpdateState(Σ, s, a, F; T )
18:
Expand(i + 1, b ∪{s 7→a}, Σ′)
19:
end if
20: end for
refusal, early termination, budget exhaustion, and failure to
satisfy an objective remain attack failures. A reproducible
runtime conflict tied to a binding is recorded as composition
evidence, while an attribution unsupported by the available
evidence remains unresolved.
E
Dataset Construction and Accounting
E.1
Source Eligibility and Automation Boundary
RangeFactory screens source records for a deployable net-
work service and a network-verifiable vulnerability impact,
then removes equivalent records while preserving distinct
implementations. The frozen experiment contains 257 At-
omization candidates; 239 yield verified Atoms, while 18
Level
Source
Composer use
verified
Successful capability
probe with an
evidence reference
May seed the
capability closure.
inferred
Agent interpretation
without a completed
probe
Retained for diagnosis;
never used as a hard
fact.
declared
Source metadata or
documentation
Descriptive only; never
used as a hard fact.
Table 10: Evidence levels for post-compromise capabilities.
fail because build artifacts are missing or reproduction is
unstable.
Table 12 makes the automation boundary explicit. The
principal scalability claim concerns the elimination of per-
range expert CVE binding, deployment, and end-to-end vali-
dation. Source eligibility rules and the choice of architecture
references are one-time dataset decisions.
E.2
Construction Funnel
The 1,840 candidates form 460 groups, each instantiating an
ordered Atom chain at four network scales; validation retains
287 groups. Thus, the final benchmark has
287 ordered Atom chains × 4 contexts
= 1,148 range instances.
(10)
The four contexts preserve Atom bindings and task informa-
tion while changing background assets: 287 measures attack-
chain variation and 1,148 measures validated networked in-
stances.
The accepted instances cover 213 Atoms, 113 products,
and all 20 scenario configurations. They are containerized,
CVE-centric, three-slot linear chains inside enterprise-style
multi-tier networks. We do not claim coverage of arbitrary
enterprise infrastructure, Windows domains, cloud IAM, or
branching attack graphs.


Failure class
Observable evidence
Action
Persistent effect
Infrastructure
Runtime materialization, deployment,
setup, readiness, or control-transport
failure
Exclude from Agent metrics and
rerun according to the
infrastructure retry policy
None
Attack execution
Environment and chain checks pass; the
Agent stops before satisfying a private
objective without a reproducible binding
conflict
Return the failed stage and
current context for a bounded
Executor retry
None beyond the current
candidate
Chain composition
A reproducible runtime conflict is
associated with a specific slot–Atom
binding or transition
Filter the candidate and store the
incompatibility condition
Composer can retrieve the
record for later batches
Unresolved
Evidence does not support a reliable
attribution
Do not accept the candidate
No new orchestration rule
Table 11: Failure classes used to separate infrastructure faults, attack generation failures, and composition failures.
Stage
Provided input
Automated output
Human boundary
Source screening
Source packages and public
reproduction material
Network-testable, CVE-deduplicated
candidates
Source repositories and
eligibility policy are
selected once
Atomization
One eligible environment
Verified Atom, Guide, evidence, and
deployable bundle
No per-range work;
unsupported source
packages may be excluded
Template generation
Public architecture reference
and requested scale
Schema-valid topology, slots, objectives,
and background assets
Reference choice and target
scale are dataset-level
inputs
Composition
Template and Atom library
Dependency-compatible candidate
bindings
No manual CVE binding or
chain design
Deployment and
validation
Candidate manifest and
reusable adapters
Deployed range, typed checks, guided
witness, and verifier result
No per-range success
annotation
Table 12: Automation boundary. One-time dataset decisions are separated from the automated work repeated for each Atom or
range instance.
Stage
Input
Retained
Atomization
257 candidates
239 Atoms
Orchestration
23,789 proposals
1,840 candidates
Validation
1,840 candidates
1,148 ranges
Table 13: Construction funnel corresponding to Table 2 of
the main text.
E.3
Construction Cost and Automation Evidence
Table 14 separates measured work from counterfactual sav-
ings. The 16.2 minutes is the mean first-pass cost per post-
Atomization candidate; over 1,840 candidates this is 496.8
worker-hours, or 26.0 worker-minutes per retained range.
These are aggregate worker-time equivalents; parallel wall-
clock time depends on workers and endpoint latency.
The approximately thirteen-fold figure is the deployment-
load ratio 23,789/1,840, not an end-to-end speedup. Exact
person-hours for the one-time ontology, adapters, and refer-
ence selection were not recorded; the supported automation
claim is the absence of manual binding, deployment, and
success annotation for each generated range.
E.4
Attack-Chain Diversity
Table 15 distinguishes source diversity, attack logic, and con-
text variation. The accepted chains use 89.1% of the Atom
library and 92.6% of its product families, rather than repeat-
edly binding a small subset.
The 861 placements and 574 transitions follow from the
evaluated three-slot chains. On average, a used Atom ap-
pears in 4.0 positions. Topology is controlled—all chains are
linear and three-slot—while Atoms, products, services, and
contexts vary; context variants are not counted as new attack
logic.
E.5
Trajectory Corpus
For every accepted instance, the corpus retains one guide-
assisted construction trajectory. Kimi-K3 contributes two L2,
one L1, and one L0 autonomous rollout, yielding 5,740 raw
records. Quality control removes 73 infrastructure interrup-
tions, 48 incomplete records, and 78 collection-job dupli-
cates, leaving 5,541 trajectories.
An unsuccessful attack is retained when its log is com-
plete and progress is verifiable. Records contain task con-
text, Agent–tool interactions, budget, provenance, milestone
turns, deepest verified hop, and outcome; Guides, objective


Stage
Observed scale
Cost evidence
Human boundary
Atomization
257 inputs →239 reusable Atoms
Performed once per vulnerability
environment; its cost is not
charged again to each range
Eligibility policy and unsupported
impact adapters are dataset-level
work
Template generation
5 template families →20 scale
configurations
Templates are reused across
candidate bindings
Architecture reference and
requested scale are supplied once
Composition
23,789 proposals →1,840
candidates
21,949 proposals (92.3%) are
rejected before deployment,
reducing the deployment load by
12.9×
No manual CVE binding or chain
design
Validation
1,840 candidates →1,148 retained
instances
16.2 min per first pass; 496.8
aggregate worker-hours; 26.0
worker-min per retained instance
including rejected candidates
No per-range success annotation
Table 14: Quantitative automation and construction-cost accounting. Worker-time figures are derived from the measured mean
first-pass candidate cost and do not include the one-time Atomization cost.
Algorithm 2: Candidate Range Validation
Require: Candidate r, guided Executor, private verifier
Ensure: Accepted range or typed rejection record
1: materialize declared runtime images and deploy r
2: configure routing, vulnerability services, and scenario
assets
3: check node/service readiness and background-service
exposure
4: verify attack-graph ordering and predecessor-to-target
connectivity
5: if any deterministic check fails then
6:
return infrastructure or deployment rejection
7: end if
8: validate Guide integrity and resolve declared execution
materials
9: if Guide integrity fails then
10:
return execution-contract rejection
11: end if
12: run the Executor with the per-Atom execution artifacts
13: verify ordered private objectives from verifier-observed
state
14: if all objectives match then
15:
retain r, its successful witness, and verification result
16: else
17:
diagnose the failed stage and apply the bounded rout-
ing policy
18: end if
values, and verifier state remain outside autonomous obser-
vations. The paper evaluates corpus structure and labeling,
not downstream training gains, while provenance separates
guided from autonomous outcomes.
F
Experimental Protocol
F.1
Task Information
RangeBench controls prior task knowledge through the
nested levels in Table 16.
Diversity unit
Count
Source Atoms / products
239 / 122
Impact categories / service roles
8 / 6
Capability types
6
Accepted-chain Atoms / products
213 / 113
Distinct ordered Atom chains
287
Atom placements in accepted chains
861
Adjacent-hop transitions
574
Template families / configurations
5 / 20
Matched contexts per chain
4
Validated range instances
1,148
Table 15: Diversity accounting for the Atom library, accepted
attack chains, and their network-context instantiations.
Level
Agent-visible information
L0
Entry address and final task objective.
L1
L0 plus the network topology.
L2
L1 plus target services, CVE-to-target mappings,
and required credentials.
Table 16: RangeBench task-information levels. No level ex-
poses PoC materials, Exploit Guides, construction trajecto-
ries, or verifier state.
F.2
Models and Agent Harness
All evaluated models receive the same task representation
and tool schema. The harness executes and records tool calls
inside the isolated attacker environment; it exposes no con-
struction artifacts and contains only experiment-owned tar-
gets.
Failure handling.
Transient API errors are retried. De-
ployment or infrastructure interruptions are rerun and ex-
cluded from Agent-failure counts; refusal, early termination,
objective failure, and budget exhaustion count as attack fail-
ures. Each run starts from a fresh Agent context.


Model
Temperature
Rollouts
Budget
Sampling note
Kimi-K3
1
1
300 turns / 1 h
Temperature 1 is the endpoint minimum.
GLM-5.2
0
1
300 turns / 1 h
Other sampling parameters use provider
defaults.
DeepSeek-V4-Pro
0
1
300 turns / 1 h
Other sampling parameters use provider
defaults.
GPT-5.6-Luna
0
1
300 turns / 1 h
Other sampling parameters use provider
defaults.
Table 17: RangeBench model protocol. One rollout per model–range–condition pair is reported as pass@1.
Execution infrastructure and randomness.
Ranges use
Linux containers through Docker and ContainerLab with
Ansible configuration; model inference uses remote APIs.
Scenario identifiers fix matched variants, but endpoints ex-
pose no common seed interface. Hardware and runtime ver-
sions were not retained, so wall-clock time is an empirical
interaction-cost measure and API billing is not compared
across providers.
Statistical scope.
The benchmark characterizes aggregate
pass@1 under the stated protocol, but a single rollout
does not estimate within-task sampling variance. Kimi-K3’s
endpoint-enforced temperature differs from the other mod-
els, so rankings refer to evaluated model–endpoint configu-
rations. Four contexts of one chain are matched observations,
not independent attack logics.
F.3
Metrics
Let zi,k = 1 when run i completes the first k ordered objec-
tives and 0 otherwise. For an mi-hop chain,
HopSuccess(k) = 1
n
n
X
i=1
zi,k,
(11)
EndToEndSuccess = 1
n
n
X
i=1
zi,mi,
(12)
ChainProgress = 1
n
n
X
i=1
max{k : zi,k = 1}
mi
.
(13)
The conditional continuation from hop j to k is reported only
over runs that have reached j:
Pr(Hk | Hj) =
P
i zi,k
P
i zi,j
,
k > j.
(14)
This conditional metric characterizes later progress after the
same entry foothold. Separating later exploit difficulty from
long-horizon state maintenance would require standardized-
foothold runs, outside the current protocol. Tool calls and
wall-clock time are medians over the corresponding run
set. Infrastructure reruns are not merged with the completed
Agent trajectory. The one-hour limit applies to the budgeted
Agent execution interval. Reported wall-clock time measures
end-to-end elapsed interaction time and may also include
endpoint latency and harness overhead; it is therefore possi-
ble for a reported elapsed time to slightly exceed 60 minutes.
It should not be read as additional Agent execution budget.
F.4
Chain-Grouped Uncertainty
The four contexts derived from one Atom chain are matched
observations, so 1,148 instances are not treated as indepen-
dent. Let yg,c ∈{0, 1} be the outcome of context c for chain
group g and xg = 1
4
P
c yg,c. The G = 287 chain groups
are the independent units. Because each instance has one
rollout, we use a conservative distribution-free bound rather
than treating the interval as repeated-rollout variance. For
confidence level 1 −α, Hoeffding’s bound gives
ϵ =
r
ln(2/α)
2G
= 0.080
(α = 0.05).
(15)
The corresponding interval is [ˆµ −ϵ, ˆµ + ϵ] ∩[0, 1], where
ˆµ = G−1 P
g xg.
For a paired difference, the chain-level variable lies in
[−1, 1], giving a 95% half-width of 16.0 percentage points.
The adjacent model gaps are 14.5, 5.0, and 12.7 points from
strongest to weakest; their worst-case paired bounds therefore
include zero. Table 18 deliberately makes the statistical lim-
itation visible: the point estimates characterize pass@1 over
the balanced benchmark, while repeated rollouts are required
to quantify within-task stochasticity or establish fine-grained
rank stability.
F.5
Construction-Time Validation Protocol
Construction uses DeepSeek-V4-Pro with Atom execution
artifacts, 300 turns, and one hour. Unlike guide-free evalu-
ation, it seeks a witness for the composed range; artifacts,
construction trajectories, and verifier state are removed be-
fore evaluation.
The accepted benchmark is conditioned on this guided
protocol. Kimi-K3 re-executes 150 DeepSeek-V4-Pro rejec-
tions and recovers 12 (8.0%), identifying validator-dependent
false rejection; unrecovered candidates are not negative la-
bels. DeepSeek-V4-Pro ranks below Kimi-K3 and GLM-5.2
on guide-free RangeBench, ruling out a trivial same-model
advantage.
G
Additional Evidence and Cases
G.1
Construction Audits
The independent audit samples 150 accepted ranges after
the automated gate. Native impact evidence is the reference
for behavior preservation; composed execution state is the
reference for checking exploit_access, capability type,
principal, and scope. The checks are recorded separately.


Model
E2E (%)
Chain-group 95% bound
High −none (pp)
Paired 95% bound (pp)
Kimi-K3
55.7
[47.7, 63.7]
−10.6
[−26.6, 5.4]
GLM-5.2
41.2
[33.2, 49.2]
−10.1
[−26.1, 5.9]
DeepSeek-V4-Pro
36.2
[28.2, 44.2]
−10.3
[−26.3, 5.7]
GPT-5.6-Luna
23.5
[15.5, 31.5]
−9.8
[−25.8, 6.2]
Table 18: Conservative uncertainty accounting with attack-chain groups as the independent units. Network-scale effects are
paired within a chain. These bounds quantify variation across chains, not repeated-rollout variance.
Audit item
Pass
Rate
95% CI
Behavior preservation 146/150 97.3% [93.3, 99.0]
Atom annotation
142/150 94.7% [89.8, 97.3]
Table 19: Accepted-range audit with Wilson 95% binomial
intervals. The two checks are not mutually exclusive.
The automated protocol defines the range count; the audit
estimates accepted-set precision and does not redefine ac-
ceptance. It neither estimates orchestration recall nor proves
rejected candidates invalid.
Validator-sensitivity audit.
We separately sample 150
DeepSeek-V4-Pro rejections and apply the same artifacts,
tools, verifier, and budget with Kimi-K3. Twelve obtain a
witness (8.0%, Wilson 95% interval [4.6%, 13.5%]); the
remaining 138 are unrecovered, not invalid. This estimates
false rejection under one alternative Executor, not an unbi-
ased validator union.
The orchestration ablation uses matched 200-proposal
samples with equal proposal and validation budgets. Ran-
dom binding, metadata matching, capability matching, and
full orchestration differ only in the dependency information
applied before deployment. This design isolates the value
of execution-derived capabilities and recorded runtime re-
quirements while retaining the same downstream validation
protocol.
G.2
Sanitized Successful Composition
Consider a three-tier template with one slot per traversed
zone. A fictional first Atom yields command execution and,
by closure, a network vantage; the second obtains a template-
owned credential asset; the third consumes that asset for
the final objective. Composer resolves services, scopes, and
assets, then the Executor exercises the Guides and the verifier
checks objectives in order. The retained range has both a
dependency-consistent graph and an execution witness.
G.3
Sanitized Validation Failure
Suppose the same capability interfaces compose, but the sec-
ond exploit uses a runtime behavior not exposed in its single-
vulnerability attack. After deployment it conflicts with the
route from the first foothold: deterministic checks pass, but
the guided attack cannot reproduce the second compromise.
The candidate is rejected; a reproducible binding conflict can
be stored as an incompatibility condition. This illustrates why
composition and end-to-end validation are complementary.
H
Security, Ethics, and Release Controls
All experiments use authorized, experiment-owned environ-
ments on isolated networks and publicly disclosed CVEs.
The appendix contains no public target, real secret, unpub-
lished vulnerability, or executable payload. Range creden-
tials and private objectives are synthetic; evaluation targets
remain inside the range data plane, and verifier assertions
remain outside Agent observations. The runtime also blocks
undeclared external downloads in Guides.
Release is role-based. Environment manifests and evalua-
tion metadata exclude verifier secrets, while exploit materi-
als, Guides, and raw trajectories require security review and
may be redacted or withheld. No external mutable repository
is required to support the claims reported in this paper.
Release Boundary.
Raw logs, private objective values, and
complete PoC bundles are omitted when they contain sensi-
tive operational details. The included schemas, algorithms,
accounting rules, and protocols support the reported aggre-
gate claims.
References
Costa, G.; Russo, E.; and Armando, A. 2022. Automating the
Generation of Cyber Range Virtual Scenarios with VSDL.
Journal of Wireless Mobile Networks, Ubiquitous Comput-
ing, and Dependable Applications, 13(4): 61–80.
Deng, G.; Liu, Y.; Mayoral-Vilches, V.; Liu, P.; Li, Y.; Xu,
Y.; Zhang, T.; Liu, Y.; Pinzger, M.; and Rass, S. 2024. Pen-
testGPT: Evaluating and Harnessing Large Language Models
for Automated Penetration Testing. In 33rd USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 24), 847–864. Philadelphia,
PA: USENIX Association. ISBN 978-1-939133-44-1.
Fang, R.; Bindu, R.; Gupta, A.; and Kang, D. 2024. LLM
Agents can Autonomously Exploit One-day Vulnerabilities.
arXiv:2404.08144.
Folkerts, L.; Payne, W.; Inman, S.; Giavridis, P.; Skinner,
J.; Deverett, S.; Aung, J.; Zorer, E.; Schmatz, M.; Ghanem,
M.; Wilkinson, J.; Steer, A.; Hong, V.; and Wang, J. 2026.
Measuring AI Agents’ Progress on Multi-Step Cyber Attack
Scenarios. arXiv:2603.11214.
Liu, F.; Dai, J.; Fan, Y.; Mai, W.; Li, Z.; Chen, B.; Zhang,
J.; Lou, Z.; Xiang, B.; Zhang, Q.; Pan, X.; Hong, G.;
Zhang, Y.; and Yang, M. 2026. AgentCyberRange: Bench-
marking Frontier AI Systems in Realistic Cyber Ranges.
arXiv:2606.14295.
Liu, Z.; Huang, L.; Zhang, J.; Liu, D.; Tian, Y.; and Shao,
J. 2025. PACEbench: A Framework for Evaluating Practical
AI Cyber-Exploitation Capabilities. arXiv:2510.11688.


Luo, X.; Zhang, J.; Zhou, S.; Huang, J.; Xiao, C.; Zhu, Q.;
Ma, Z.; Yue, X.; Yue, Y.; Zeng, W.; and Che, W. 2026.
CVE-Factory: Scaling Expert-Level Agentic Tasks for Code
Security Vulnerability. arXiv:2602.03012.
Lupinacci, M.; Blefari, F.; Romeo, F.; Pironti, F. A.; and Fur-
faro, A. 2025. ARCeR: an Agentic RAG for the Automated
Definition of Cyber Ranges. In International Conference on
Availability, Reliability and Security, 23–40. Springer.
Nguyen, H. P. T.; Hasegawa, K.; Fukushima, K.; and Beuran,
R. 2025. PenGym: Realistic training environment for rein-
forcement learning pentesting agents. Computers & Security,
148: 104140.
Ou, X.; Govindavajhala, S.; Appel, A. W.; et al. 2005. Mul-
VAL: A logic-based network security analyzer. In USENIX
security symposium, volume 8, 113–128. Baltimore, MD.
Pham, C.; Tang, D.; Chinen, K.-i.; and Beuran, R. 2016.
Cyris: A cyber range instantiation system for facilitating se-
curity training. In Proceedings of the 7th Symposium on
Information and Communication Technology.
Rizos, G. S.; Kopalidis, N.; Mengidis, N.; Lalas, A.; and Vo-
tis, K. 2025. From Concept to Deployment: An AI Assistant
for Generating and Configuring Cyber Range Scenarios. In
2025 IEEE International Conference on Cyber Security and
Resilience (CSR), 777–782. IEEE.
Russo, E.; Costa, G.; and Armando, A. 2020. Building next
generation cyber ranges with crack. Computers & Security,
95: 101837.
Schreuders, Z. C.; Shaw, T.; Shan-A-Khuda, M.; Ravichan-
dran, G.; Keighley, J.; and Ordean, M. 2017.
Security
Scenario Generator (SecGen): A Framework for Generat-
ing Randomly Vulnerable Rich-scenario VMs for Learn-
ing Computer Security and Hosting CTF Events. In 2017
USENIX Workshop on Advances in Security Education (ASE
17). Vancouver, BC: USENIX Association.
Shao, M.; Jancheska, S.; Udeshi, M.; Dolan-Gavitt, B.; Xi,
H.; Milner, K.; Chen, B.; Yin, M.; Garg, S.; Krishnamurthy,
P.; Khorrami, F.; Karri, R.; and Shafique, M. 2024. NYU
CTF Bench: A Scalable Open-Source Benchmark Dataset
for Evaluating LLMs in Offensive Security. In Globerson,
A.; Mackey, L.; Belgrave, D.; Fan, A.; Paquet, U.; Tom-
czak, J.; and Zhang, C., eds., Advances in Neural Informa-
tion Processing Systems, volume 37, 57472–57498. Curran
Associates, Inc.
Skandylas, C.; and Asplund, M. 2026. Automated Genera-
tion of Cybersecurity Exercise Scenarios. arXiv:2604.01079.
Ullah, S.; Balasubramanian, P.; Guo, W.; Burnett, A.;
Pearce, H.; Kruegel, C.; Vigna, G.; and Stringhini, G.
2026. From CVE Entries to Verifiable Exploits: An Au-
tomated Multi-Agent Framework for Reproducing CVEs.
arXiv:2509.01835.
Vulhub. 2026. Vulhub. https://vulhub.org/.
Wang, Z.; Shi, T.; He, J.; Cai, M.; Zhang, J.; and Song,
D. 2026.
CyberGym: Evaluating AI Agents’ Real-World
Cybersecurity Capabilities at Scale. arXiv:2506.02548.
Zhang, A. K.; Perry, N.; Dulepet, R.; Ji, J.; Menders, C.; Lin,
J.; Jones, E.; Hussein, G.;Liu, S.;Jasper, D.;Peetathawatchai,
P.; Glenn, A.; Sivashankar, V.; Zamoshchin, D.; Glikbarg,
L.; Askaryar, D.; Yang, H.; Zhang, A.; Alluri, R.; Tran, N.;
Sangpisit, R.; Oseleononmen, K.; Boneh, D.; Ho, D.; and
Liang, P. 2025. Cybench: A Framework for Evaluating Cy-
bersecurity Capabilities and Risks of Language Models. In
Yue, Y.; Garg, A.; Peng, N.; Sha, F.; and Yu, R., eds., Inter-
national Conference on Learning Representations, volume
2025, 25094–25243.
Zhu, Y.; Kellermann, A.; Bowman, D.; Li, P.; Gupta, A.;
Danda, A.; Fang, R.; Jensen, C.; Ihli, E.; Benn, J.; Geronimo,
J.; Dhir, A.; Rao, S.; Yu, K.; Stone, T.; and Kang, D. 2025.
CVE-Bench: A Benchmark for AI Agents’ Ability to Exploit
Real-World Web Application Vulnerabilities. In Proceedings
of the 42nd International Conference on Machine Learning,
volume 267 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
79850–79867. PMLR.
Zhuo, T. Y.; Wang, D.; Ding, H.; Kumar, V.; and Wang, Z.
2025a. Cyber-Zero: Training Cybersecurity Agents without
Runtime. arXiv:2508.00910.
Zhuo, T. Y.; Wang, D.; Ding, H.; Kumar, V.; and Wang, Z.
2025b. Training Language Model Agents to Find Vulnera-
bilities with CTF-Dojo. arXiv:2508.18370.
