Title: No Attack Required: Semantic Fuzzing for Specification Violations in Agent Skills

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.13044v1

Published Time: Thu, 14 May 2026 00:48:26 GMT

Number of Pages: 17

Markdown Content:
# No Attack Required: Semantic Fuzzing for Specification Violations in Agent Skills 

Ying Li †, Hongbo Wen ‡, Yanju Chen §, Hanzhi Liu ‡, Yuan Tian †, Yu Feng ‡†University of California, Los Angeles. Email: {yinglee, yuant }@ucla.edu 

> ‡

University of California, Santa Barbara. Email: {hongbowen, hanzhi, yufeng }@ucsb.edu 

> §

University of California, San Diego. Email: yanju@ucsd.edu 

Abstract —LLM-powered agents can silently delete documents, leak credentials, or transfer funds on a routine user request, not because the agent was attacked, but because the skill it invoked broke its own declared safety rules. We call these specification violations : benign inputs cause a skill to breach the natural-language guardrails in its own specification, typically because the guardrail’s semantics are undefined for autonomous execution, or because the implementation silently ignores the documented constraint. These violations are invisible to static analyzers, traditional fuzzers, and prompt-injection defenses alike, yet they undermine the very contract a user trusts when installing a skill. We present S EFZ , a goal-directed semantic fuzzing framework that automatically discovers specification violations in agent skills. S EFZ translates each guardrail into a reachability goal 

over an annotated execution trace , reducing violation checking to a deterministic graph query. An LLM-based mutator gen-erates benign inputs whose traces progressively approach the violation patterns, guided by a multi-armed bandit that uses goal-proximity as its reward signal. On 402 real-world skills from the largest public agent-skill marketplace, S EFZ finds specification violations in 120 (29.9%), including 26 previously unknown exploitable guardrail violations in deployed skills. Six recurring specification pitfalls explain the bulk of the failures, suggesting concrete principles for safer skill design. 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

LLM-powered agents increasingly act on behalf of users by invoking external tools such as file systems, terminals, email clients, and web APIs [1], [2]. Agent skills [3] have emerged as a standard format that lets developers package specialized ca-pabilities as skills : bundles of natural-language instructions and optional executable scripts that an agent can discover, load, and follow on a user’s behalf. Thousands of such skills are already publicly available [4], public marketplaces distribute hundreds of thousands of them per month [5], [6], and runtimes such as OpenClaw [7] ship them as first-class extension points. These skills span domains from financial transactions and IoT device control to email and cloud infrastructure, where even a minor misstep can lead to serious consequences. To mitigate such risks, skill specifications declare natural-language safety constraints (guardrails) that restrict how the agent may act. Yet these guardrails can fail silently. Consider a user who installs a smart-home skill and asks her agent to “Unlock the front door.” The skill’s specification is explicit: “always confirm with the user before locking or unlocking.” The agent processes the request, and the lock opens with no confirmation, no second question. The user did nothing wrong; the skill simply violated its own rule. The root cause is twofold: the confirmation mechanism relies on a shell read -r prompt that fails silently in the agent’s non-interactive environment, and the skill exposes a generic command path that bypasses the safety check entirely. This is not an isolated case. As the skill ecosystem grows, so does the attack surface: guardrails written in natural language can be ambiguous (e.g., “interactive mode” has no meaning for an autonomous agent), inconsistent with the underlying implementation (e.g., a required flag that the code silently ignores), or leave unsafe emergent behaviors unguarded when multiple operations are composed. Existing work on agent ecosystem security analysis and defense includes static analysis [8], [9], directed greybox fuzzing [9], [10], prompt-injection detection [11]–[14], and supply-chain auditing [15]–[17]. However, none of these ap-proaches can be used to detect specification violations in agent skills. First , such violations are semantic rather than syntactic, the violations arise not from code-level bugs like buffer overflows or injection sinks, but from the gap between what a natural-language guardrail says and how an LLM interprets it at runtime. Second , they are triggered by benign user inputs rather than adversarial prompts, so techniques built around detecting or generating malicious inputs cannot reach them. Third , they only manifest through the agent’s runtime behavior, through specific sequences of tool calls and argument values that depend on the LLM’s reasoning, making them invisible to any static analysis over the specification text or the skill’s code. To address these challenges, we present SEFZ , a goal-directed semantic fuzzing framework that automatically dis-covers specification violations in agent skills. The key insights of S EFZ are: (1) Specification violations can only be exposed by actually executing the skill under realistic inputs and observing the resulting behavior: no static method can predict how an LLM will interpret a natural-language guardrail at runtime. This makes dynamic testing, and specifically fuzzing, the natural approach to systematically surface these violations. (2) We bridge the semantic gap between natural-language guardrails and agent behavior by introducing Reachability Goals over Annotated Execution Traces . Each agent execution is recorded as a dependency graph of events labeled with secu-rity predicates, and each guardrail is translated into a forbidden source-to-sink path that may be intercepted by a designated 

> arXiv:2605.13044v1 [cs.CR] 13 May 2026

gate. The constraint “delete operations require explicit user confirmation,” for instance, becomes “user input reaches a destructive action with no intervening confirmation step.” A violation is then a concrete input whose trace witnesses such a goal, giving fuzzing a deterministic, reproducible oracle without relying on an LLM-based judge. (3) We develop a Semantic Mutation Engine that navigates the unbounded natural-language input space through LLM-driven operators guided by a Thompson Sampling bandit [18] that concentrates effort on the most productive operator–goal combinations. The same reachability goals double as a graded feedback signal: a trace that gets closer to the forbidden path steers future mutations even before a full violation is observed. Putting these together, our evaluation demonstrates that SEFZ can effectively and efficiently discover real-world spec-ification violations that are invisible to both static analysis and LLM-based auditing. On 402 real-world skills from the OpenClaw marketplace [7], spanning six domains from crypto-finance to cloud infrastructure, S EFZ finds specification viola-tions in 120 of them (29.9%), including 26 zero-day violations in deployed skills with active user bases. Fuzzing converges in an average of 11 minutes per skill, with an ablation confirming that each core component contributes: removing semantic mutation costs ∼53% of discovery, removing the bandit costs 

∼35%, and removing goal-proximity feedback costs another 

∼29%. We further distill the underlying defects into six recurring specification pitfalls that offer concrete guidance for writing safer skill specifications. Overall, agent skills increasingly express safety boundaries as natural-language guardrails, yet these guardrails can fail under normal use with-out prompt injection or compromised runtimes. S EFZ exposes such failures by turning guardrails into trace reachability goals and fuzzing benign requests against them. 

Contributions. We summarize our contributions as follows:  

> •

We formalize skill specification violations , a new vul-nerability class in which benign inputs trigger behaviors that contradict a skill’s declared guardrails, and introduce 

annotated execution traces with security predicates and 

reachability goals that translate natural-language guardrails into deterministic, graded oracles.  

> •

We realize this formalization in SEFZ , a goal-directed semantic fuzzing framework that combines LLM-driven mutation operators with a Thompson Sampling bandit for operator selection and goal-proximity scoring for feedback-driven exploration.  

> •

We evaluate S EFZ on 402 real-world skills from the Open-Claw marketplace, finding specification violations in 120 of them (29.9%), including 26 zero-day specification violations in deployed skills with active user bases, and distill six recurring specification pitfalls that explain the bulk of the failures. II. B ACKGROUND 

In this section, we introduce agent skills and their guardrails, describe the classes of specification violations that arise in practice, and state our threat model. 

A. Agent Skills 

Agent Skills [3] are a lightweight, open format for extending AI agent capabilities with specialized knowledge and work-flows. A skill is a directory containing a SKILL.md file with two parts: (1) YAML metadata specifying the skill’s name and a natural-language description, and (2) procedural instructions that tell the agent how to perform specific tasks. A skill may also bundle executable scripts, templates, and reference materials. Agents discover and load skills through progressive disclosure : at startup only the name and description are loaded; when a user task matches a skill’s description, the full instruc-tions are read into context; bundled scripts and resources are accessed only as needed during execution. The natural-language description is the primary interface be-tween the skill and the agent: agents rely on it to decide when to activate the skill, what operations are available, and what constraints must be respected. Safety constraints are embedded directly in this description as prose-level rules. We use the term 

guardrail for any single safety constraint written into a skill’s description or instructions (e.g., “require explicit confirmation before deletion” or “the --confirm-publish flag must be set”). Because guardrails are expressed in natural language rather than as formal predicates, their operational semantics are inherently ambiguous: different agents (or different runs of the same agent) may interpret them differently. A guardrail is the unit at which S EFZ checks for violations. OpenClaw [7] is an open-source agent runtime that im-plements the Agent Skills format, managing skill discovery, loading, and execution. Its public registry, ClawHub, hosts a large catalog of community-published skills. 

B. Specification Violations in Agent Skills 

Guardrails in agent skills can be violated in ways that do not arise in conventionally compiled software, because their semantics are expressed in natural language and interpreted by an LLM at runtime. We identify three classes of specification violations , all triggered by benign user inputs that follow the skill’s intended usage. 

Ambiguous guardrails. A guardrail’s operational semantics are undefined in an agent context. For example, the Coda skill in Figure 1 requires “explicit user confirmation in interactive mode” for destructive operations, but an autonomous agent has no mechanism to present a confirmation dialog and may treat the constraint as vacuously satisfied. 

Specification–implementation mismatch. The specifica-tion documents a safety mechanism absent from the underlying implementation. The same skill (Figure 1) states that the  

> --confirm-publish

flag “must be set” for publishing, yet the bundled script silently ignores it. 

Emergent workflow-level violations. Individual calls are safe, but their composition violates a security invariant. For instance, granting write permission to an external collabo-rator and then publishing the document creates a window in which the collaborator can modify content that is immediately 2exposed publicly; no single guardrail anticipates this privilege escalation [19], [20]. In all three classes, the root cause is the skill’s own design rather than adversarial input. 

C. Threat Model 

In our threat model, we assume that the user is benign, the agent is correctly functioning, and the agent runtime is not compromised. The skill’s natural-language specification is the authoritative source of its security contract. The security goal is guardrail compliance : the agent’s behavior must conform to every safety constraint declared in the skill’s specification. Violations of this goal can have serious consequences: destruc-tive operations executed without confirmation (e.g., deleting documents, unlocking physical devices), unauthorized actions performed after explicit user refusal (e.g., sending emails), and sensitive data exposed without proper access control (e.g., leaking credentials). Our model does not require an attacker. Benign user tasks, executed by a correctly functioning agent, can trigger specification violations, in contrast to prompt-injection threat models [21]. By “benign” we mean the user is not adversarial, but their input may contain unverifiable claims about social context (e.g., urgency, authority, third-party approval). A spec-ification whose enforcement depends on the agent validating such claims is broken even if no malicious actor exists. The boundary is structural: benign claims vary the user’s real-world context (role, urgency, approvals); prompt injection targets the agent’s instruction layer itself. We target specification violations that arise from the semantic gap between natural-language guardrails and agent behavior. We exclude attacks on the agent’s control flow: jailbreaks, system-prompt imperson-ation, and other prompt-injection patterns [13], [21], as well as side-channel attacks and memory-safety bugs. III. O VERVIEW 

In this section, we first use a motivating example to show how the guardrails fail to prevent specification violations under benign user requests, then present the architecture of S EFZ that automatically discovers such violations, and formally state the problem the rest of the paper addresses. 

A. Motivating Example 

Consider the Coda document-management skill presented in Figure 1. This skill declares natural-language guardrails for three high-risk operations: destructive operations re-quire explicit user confirmation, publishing requires the  

> --confirm-publish

flag, and permission changes require the  

> --confirm-permissions

flag. These guardrails follow best practices for skill specification: they are structured, specific, and an independent LLM judge ( claude-opus-4-6 ) rated them as well-written and operationally clear. Yet, as we show below, S EFZ discovers violations in the guardrails, each triggered by a benign user request. 

Violation 1: Ambiguous guardrail. A user asks the agent to “Delete my Doc B in Coda.” Under the documented Safety Guardrails in Coda Skill    

> Delete Operations (rows, docs, pages, folders):
> - Always requires explicit user confirmation in interactive mode
> - Use `--force` flag only in automation/scripts
> - Shows preview of what will be deleted
> Publishing (docs publish)
> - Requires explicit `--confirm-publish` flag
> - Cannot be combined with `--force`
> Permissions (acl commands):
> - Requires explicit `--confirm-permissions` flag for any changes
> - Read operations (list permissions) are always allowed

Fig. 1: Safety guardrails declared in the Coda skill specifica-tion, grouped by operation type.   

> e1: user input e2: invoke(coda)
> e3: exec(Bash --force )e4: access(Doc B)
> invoke
> invoke
> dataflow

Fig. 2: Trace for Violation 1: the user request flows through the agent’s tool calls into a destructive shell command ( --force 

on e3 is the load-bearing detail that suppresses confirmation), with no confirmation step on the path. workflow, the agent should pause for explicit confirmation and then invoke coda_cli.py docs delete without the --force 

flag. Instead, it judges the spec’s “interactive mode” clause inapplicable to its own autonomous setting, calls the CLI directly with --force , and silently treats the confirmation constraint as vacuously satisfied, and Doc B is deleted without any confirmation. Figure 2 sketches the resulting trace: the user’s request flows through the agent’s tool invocations into a destructive shell call that touches a sensitive document, and no confirmation step appears anywhere on the path. 

Violation 2: Spec–implementation mismatch. The second violation targets a different guardrail in the same skill. The user asks the agent to “Publish my Doc B.” The spec instructs the agent to invoke     

> python coda_cli.py docs publish --confirm-publish

,and the agent dutifully tries exactly that. The call fails: the  

> publish

subcommand named in the spec does not exist in the actual CLI. Rather than give up, the agent falls back to a direct REST request, curl -X PUT .../docs/B/publish ,and the document is published without any confirmation; the agent’s recovery path takes a route the spec never anticipated, silently discarding the guardrail. Figure 4 shows the resulting trace: the documented CLI attempt ( e3, dashed) produces no further effect, while the agent’s HTTP fallback ( e4) reaches the same document ( e5) with no confirmation step on the path. 

Challenges. Automatically detecting such violations is non-trivial due to the following key challenges: First , there is a 3Guardrail Decomposition     

> Skill
> Specification
> Goals Seeds Seed Corpus
> Semantic Mutation
> Thompson
> Sampling Probe
> Sandboxed Executor
> OpenClaw
> Multi-Turn Simulator
> Trace Recorder
> Trace Annotator
> Oracle
> Graph
> Traversal
> Goal-Proximity
> Scoring
> Violation
> Witness
> ❶❷
> ❸
> Reward
> Fuzzing Loop
> Variant

Fig. 3: Architecture of S EFZ : Guardrail Decomposition ( ❶), Semantic Mutation ( ❷), and the Oracle ( ❸) form a closed fuzzing loop; the Sandboxed Executor drives agent execution and trace annotation.  

> e1: user input e2: invoke(coda)
> e3: exec(cli, fails)
> e4: exec(curl) e5: access(Doc B)
> invoke
> invoke
> invoke
> dataflow

Fig. 4: Trace for Violation 2: the documented CLI attempt (e3, dashed) fails, and the agent’s HTTP fallback ( e4) silently bypasses the missing --confirm-publish flag. semantic gap between specification and behavior: guardrails are expressed in natural language and interpreted by an LLM at runtime, and the mismatch between what the specification says and what the agent does only surfaces through specific sequences of tool calls and argument values during execution. 

Second , the input space is unbounded: the space of benign user requests that could trigger a violation cannot be systematically enumerated, unlike structured inputs in conventional fuzzing. 

Third , interpretation is non-static: whether a guardrail is respected depends on how the LLM interprets it at runtime (e.g., the agent judged “interactive mode” inapplicable to itself in Violation 1), a decision that cannot be predicted from the specification text or the skill’s code alone. These challenges motivate S EFZ ’s design, presented next. 

B. Framework Overview 

To address the above challenges, we propose SEFZ , asemantic fuzzing framework that dynamically generates be-nign inputs, executes them through the agent, and checks the resulting traces against the specification. Figure 3 illus-trates the end-to-end architecture. Given a skill specification, SEFZ operates in three stages within a closed fuzzing loop. 

❶ Guardrail Decomposition reads the specification, produces an initial corpus of benign user-task inputs (seeds), and ex-tracts reachability goals that formalize what a violation would look like, bridging the semantic gap between natural-language guardrails and checkable properties. ❷ Semantic Mutation se-lects a seed from the corpus and applies LLM-based mutation operators to turn it into new variants; a Thompson Sampling scheduler concentrates effort on the operators that have been most productive so far, enabling systematic exploration of the otherwise unbounded input space. Each variant is executed by the Sandboxed Executor , which runs the input through the agent inside a sandbox multiple times, captures every tool invocation and resource access, merges the resulting traces, and annotates each event with security-relevant labels such as state-modifying, sensitive-data access, and confirmation status. Repeated execution ensures that verdicts are robust to the LLM’s non-deterministic interpretation. ❸ The Oracle 

matches the annotated execution against the reachability goals; violations are reported as witnesses, and a graded score (how close the execution came to a violation) is fed back to the scheduler, closing the loop. 

C. Problem Statement 

The problem is to automatically discover specification vio-lations in agent skills. We are given (i) a skill specification 

S, consisting of a SKILL.md file with natural-language guardrails and optionally bundled scripts and resources; and (ii) an LLM agent A that discovers, interprets, and executes the skill S. The task is twofold: first, extract a set of reachability goals Φ = {ϕ1, . . . , ϕ m} from S, each encoding a forbidden pattern in the agent’s behavior; then, find inputs {t1, . . . , t k},each benign and specification-consistent , such that running each ti through A produces behavior matching at least one 

ϕ ∈ Φ. Here benign restricts ti to tasks a legitimate user would plausibly issue, ruling out adversarial prompts, jailbreaks, and injection attacks (Section II-C). IV. E XECUTION TRACES AND SECURITY PREDICATES 

SEFZ ’s oracle rests on two artifacts (Figure 5): an annotated execution trace τ that abstracts an agent run into a labeled graph (Section IV-A), and a reachability goal ϕ that expresses, as a pattern over the trace, what a violation looks like (Section IV-B). A guardrail is translated into ϕ (Section IV-C); the oracle holds when τ exhibits ϕ.

A. Annotated Execution Traces 

The execution side of Figure 5 mirrors the program-dependence-graph abstraction familiar from static analy-4Table I: Event types and dependency types in annotated execution traces. 

Category Type Description 

Events skill Top-level skill invocations (e.g., Coda skill)  

> tool

Concrete tool calls during execution (e.g., Bash, curl, API calls)  

> resource

External resources accessed (e.g., REST endpoints, files, databases)  

> auth

Authorization checkpoints (user confirmation prompts, permission checks) Deps invoke A skill or tool triggers another tool  

> dataflow

Data produced by one event is consumed by another  

> control

Execution ordering or conditional dependency between operations 

Table II: Security predicates and their assignment strategies. 

Predicate Semantics Assignment 

> tainted

(e) Processes user-supplied or externally controlled data Propagated along dataflow edges from user inputs 

> sens

(e) Accesses or produces sensitive data (PII, docs) Schema keywords or runtime content inspection 

> ask

(e) Requires explicit user confirmation Confirmation prompt in the execution trace 

> exec

(e) Performs state-modifying action Tool schema (HTTP verb) or observed side-effects 

> cred

(e) Reads or transmits authentication material Parameter names or token patterns in arguments       

> Guardrail Reachability goal ϕ
> Agent execution
> Annotated trace τ
> translation
> recording
> oracle: does τexhibit ϕ?

Fig. 5: The three artifacts in S EFZ ’s analysis. A guardrail is translated into a reachability goal ϕ; an agent execution is recorded as an annotated trace τ ; the oracle decides violation by checking whether τ exhibits ϕ.sis [22], with two adaptations. First, because each input may steer the LLM through entirely different tool calls and resources, the graph is built dynamically from observed events rather than statically from source code. Second, each event is annotated with security predicates so that violation patterns can be expressed declaratively over the resulting labeled graph. 

Definition 1 (Annotated Execution Trace) . An annotated execution trace is a finite sequence τ = ⟨e1, . . . , e n⟩ together with a set of typed dependency edges deps (ei) for each event; together they form a labeled DAG with events as nodes. Each event ei records its type, arguments, and output, and carries a set λ(ei) ⊆ P of security predicates drawn from a fixed vocabulary P. Each edge in deps (ei) is a pair (ej , d ) with 

j < i and d ranging over the dependency types of Table I. 

Events and dependencies. Table I lists the four event types and three dependency types. Events match the natural granularity of agent execution: skill anchors a top-level invo-cation, tool records a concrete tool call, resource represents a terminal data source or sink, and auth captures confirmation prompts and permission checks. Dependencies make explicit the three ways events relate: invoke (caller–callee), dataflow 

(an output of one event flows into another’s arguments), and control (sequential ordering between siblings). Together, events and dependencies form the labeled graph that goals will be checked against. 

Security predicates. The predicate vocabulary is intention-ally small. Every reachability goal we will encounter has the same shape: a chain from a source of some effect to a sink 

that realizes it, mediated (or not) by a gate . Five predicates suffice to populate these three roles, summarized in Table II: 

Definition 2 (Security Predicates) . The vocabulary P contains five predicates: tainted (event handles externally-controlled data), sens (event accesses or produces sensitive data), ask 

(event is a user-confirmation checkpoint), exec (event modi-fies state), and cred (event reads or transmits authentication material). The five abstract predicates suffice for the formal model and the goal templates introduced shortly. In practice each one ad-mits finer-grained subtypes (for instance, exec_delete versus 

> exec_net

, or a four-state confirmation machine for ask ) that support boundary-aware bookkeeping during trace recording without changing the formalism; Appendix B catalogs the full subtype set. In the Coda trace of Figure 2, e1 carries tainted , e3 carries 

> exec

, and e4 carries sens ; no event on the chain e1 → e2 →

e3 carries ask , because --force suppresses confirmation. The next subsection formalizes this missing-mediator pattern as a reachability goal. 

Trace recording. At runtime, S EFZ intercepts every skill invocation, tool call, resource access, and confirmation prompt to materialize τ . Predicates come from two complementary sources. Schema-derived signals follow from the declared interface of a tool: an HTTP DELETE verb adds exec , a param-eter named api_key adds cred , and a registered confirmation hook adds ask . Runtime-derived signals follow from observed values: taint propagates along dataflow edges, and sensitive 5content or authentication tokens are recognized by content inspection. We defer further details to Section VI. 

B. Reachability Goals 

With τ in hand, we now turn to the second artifact in Figure 5: the reachability goal ϕ that says what a viola-tion looks like over the trace. Guardrails typically forbid a particular dependency chain (“no destructive action without confirmation”, “no sensitive data on an outbound channel”), so a violation is an execution whose trace contains such a chain, reducing the oracle to reachability over a labeled graph [23]. 

Definition 3 (Reachability Goal) . A reachability goal is a triple ϕ = ( πs, π d, Πg ) of predicate sets that name three roles a violation chain plays: πs is the source set whose predicates the start of the chain must carry, πd is the sink set whose predicates the end must carry, and Πg is the gate set : a chain from source to sink counts as a violation only if its intermediate events carry no gate predicate , since a gate event (such as a confirmation prompt) is what would otherwise discharge the obligation. A trace τ satisfies ϕ, written τ |= ϕ, if some dependency chain ei → · · · → ej in τ has λ(ei) ⊇ πs,

λ(ej ) ⊇ πd, and λ(em) ∩ Πg = ∅ for every intermediate 

em. An execution is a specification violation whenever τ |= ϕ

for some goal ϕ.We instantiate ϕ for the three threat classes covered by SEFZ , treating (πs, π d, Πg ) as parameters that the translation step in Section IV-C fills in. 

Unconfirmed action. A user-supplied task reaches a state-modifying action with no authorization between them: 

ϕu =  {tainted }, {exec }, {ask }. (1) The Coda trace of Figure 2 satisfies ϕu: e1 (user input) carries  

> tainted

(⊇ πs), e3 (Bash with --force ) carries exec (⊇ πd), and no event on e1 → e2 → e3 carries ask , witnessing 

τ |= ϕu. ask sits in the gate set because the spec requires a confirmation step on every tainted -to-exec path; a violation is exactly a path on which that gate is absent. 

Data exfiltration. Sensitive data reaches a state-modifying event that is itself reachable from user input: ϕe =({sens }, {exec , tainted }, {ask }). tainted appears in πd as a property of the sink event, not its source: the conjunction insists that the sink be externally triggerable, ruling out inci-dental internal writes that share an exec label but cannot be reached from a user prompt. A third template, privilege escalation , captures ex-ternal input reaching authentication material: ϕp =({tainted }, {cred }, {ask }).The same goal ϕ plays two roles. As an oracle , it delivers the verdict on a single trace. As a progress measure , it grades partial executions: a trace that reaches an exec from a tainted 

source but still passes through an ask is closer to ϕu than one that has not produced any exec at all; the goal-proximity score derived from this distance drives the goal-directed mutation in Section V. 

C. From Specifications to Goals 

The reachability goals of Section IV-B are still parameter-ized: each template has three predicate-set slots that remain to be filled in for a specific skill. Closing the loop between spec-ification and oracle therefore requires one final step, which is the subject of this subsection: turning the skill’s guardrails into instantiated goals. The input is a list of guardrails extracted from the specification (e.g., “Deletes require user confirma-tion” ); the output is a set Φ of instantiated reachability goals (e.g., ϕu with πd = {exec_delete }, Πg = {ask }) that the oracle can mechanically check against any trace. The natural temptation is to ask an LLM to emit the goal di-rectly from the guardrail. We resist this for one reason: the goal is the ground truth that the entire analysis is built on, so any ambiguity in NL understanding propagates as false positives or false negatives across every fuzzing iteration. Instead, we interpose a small intermediate representation, the constraint skeleton , that captures just enough structure to determine the goal by a deterministic match. Skeleton extraction is fuzzy by necessity (it is the LLM’s job). Skeleton-to-goal matching is mechanical and inspectable. Ambiguity is thereby confined to a single narrow interface. 

The skeleton. A constraint skeleton has four slots:  

> •

trigger : the action under guard, typically a destructive ac-tion, an outbound communication, or a credential access;  

> •

role : whether the trigger plays source or sink in the violation chain;  

> •

gate : the predicate whose absence constitutes the viola-tion, almost always ask ; 

> •

params : any qualifier that refines the trigger predicate to a specific subtype (Appendix B). 

One guardrail, end to end. Take the guardrail “Deletes require user confirmation” . An LLM reads it and produces the skeleton with trigger = destructive action, role = sink , gate =

> ask

, and params = {exec_delete }. A deterministic step then matches this skeleton against the templates of Section IV-B: the pair (destructive action, sink ) selects ϕu and tells us πd

is the slot to fill; the gate populates Πg ; the params refine the trigger predicate to its subtype. The instantiated goal that emerges is ϕu with πd = {exec_delete } and Πg = {ask }.The same procedure handles guardrails that select the other two templates, with the only difference being which slot of the skeleton turns into which slot of the goal. 

Example 1 (Other templates) . A guardrail whose trigger plays the source role selects ϕe. For instance, “Do not send PII to external APIs” yields a skeleton with trigger = sensitive data, role = source , gate = ask , and the goal ϕe with πs = {sens }

and πd = {exec , tainted }. A guardrail about authentication material selects ϕp: “API keys must never be transmitted” 

produces trigger = credential material, role = sink , yielding 

ϕp with πd = {cred } and Πg = {ask }. These examples are illustrative; guardrails are skill-specific and unbounded, but every guardrail whose skeleton fits the four slots is handled uniformly by the same matching step. 6Algorithm 1 Goal-directed semantic fuzzing.                                                             

> Require: Skill specification S, reachability goals Φ
> Ensure: Set of violations V
> 1: κ←seeds (S, Φ) ;V←∅
> 2: repeat
> 3: t←choose (κ),ω←bandit (Ω)
> 4: t′←mutate (t, ω )
> 5: τ←annotate (execute (t′))
> 6: for each ϕ∈Φdo
> 7: if τ|=ϕthen ▷violation found
> 8: V←V∪ { (t′, τ, ϕ )}
> 9: s←R(τ, Φ) ;updateBandit (ω, s )
> 10: if s > θ then ▷admit promising mutant
> 11: κ←κ∪ { t′}
> 12: until terminated
> 13: return V

Beyond per-guardrail goals, S EFZ always seeds Φ with a small set of universal goals— ϕp over the default credential vocabulary and ϕu specialized to high-risk action classes (dele-tion, remote execution), catching violations whose guardrail was never written down. V. G OAL -D IRECTED SEMANTIC FUZZING 

With the annotated trace and reachability goal in place, we now turn to the fuzzer that uses them: a closed-loop algorithm that generates inputs, runs them through the agent, scores the resulting traces, and adapts its mutation strategy to push closer to the goals. 

A. Overview of the Fuzzing Loop 

Algorithm 1 presents the top-level loop. Given a skill specification S and a set of reachability goals Φ (Section IV), SEFZ produces a set of violations V , each witnessed by a task input, its annotated trace, and the violated goal. Each iteration mutates a seed with an operator drawn by a Thompson Sampling bandit, executes the mutant, annotates the resulting trace, and checks it against every goal ϕ ∈ Φ

via the satisfaction relation τ |= ϕ (Definition 3). The graded reward R(τ, Φ) updates the bandit and admits the mutant to 

κ when it exceeds an adaptive threshold θ, set to the running median reward of the corpus. We unpack each step in turn. 

B. Seed Generation 

SEFZ generates seeds conditioned on the skill specifica-tion S, the reachability goals Φ, and a small set of benign usage examples. Each seed is a multi-turn scenario whose slots include at least an initial user request; further slots (confirmation reply, follow-up, etc.) may be pre-filled by the seed generator or filled at runtime by the user simulator. Seeds are categorized by their initial request:  

> •

Capability-derived : benign tasks that invoke each de-clared tool in isolation (e.g., “List all documents in my workspace”).  

> •

Guardrail-derived : tasks that exercise the boundary be-tween permitted and restricted operations (e.g., triggering a confirmation gate).  

> •

Implicit-capability : high-level goals that may indirectly trigger sensitive tools without naming them (e.g., “Clean up my workspace”). All generated seeds are specification-consistent : they represent tasks a legitimate user might plausibly issue. 

C. Semantic Mutation Operators 

A corpus of seeds is only the starting point: the fuzzer’s value comes from systematically perturbing each seed to expose where a skill’s guardrails actually break. Because seeds and perturbations are natural-language messages, the pertur-bation has to be semantic , not byte-level. S EFZ ’s mutation engine rewrites exactly one user message inside a multi-turn fuzzing dialogue, and we organize the operators by the kind of guardrail they attempt to bypass, yielding four families. Table III introduces the families together with one or two representative operators per family; the full catalog of 16 operators is given in Appendix A. We write Ω for this full set of operators, and ω ∈ Ω for an individual operator drawn from it. Each family targets a different class of guardrail and rewrites the slot of the user message that the guardrail is expected to gate:  

> •

Confirmation Weakening probes whether the agent’s con-firmation classifier accepts only the spec’s listed words or any agreeable-sounding reply. Operators generate replies that a human would read as agreement (“probably,” “whatever, just go ahead,” “my partner already said yes”) but that miss the spec’s explicit accept set.  

> •

Precondition Skipping probes whether the spec’s required prerequisite steps (asking, confirming, notifying) survive contact with initial requests that frame those steps as inap-propriate or already done, by urgency, asserted authority, or framing as continuation of an earlier session.  

> •

Action Reframing probes whether the spec’s action pred-icate is bound to the literal verb ( delete ) or to its seman-tics. Operators paraphrase the verb ( remove, take care of, clean up ) or blur the action’s subject.  

> •

Resource Redirection probes whether the spec’s resource constraints (URL allow-lists, numeric limits, file-path restrictions) hold under destinations or values placed just outside the documented set. Across families, the operators collectively probe each guardrail along the axis it is most likely to fail on. Mutation prompts explicitly forbid imperative overrides ( “ignore pre-vious instructions” ), system-role impersonation, and known jailbreak patterns, and a separate LLM judge rejects adversar-ial candidates before execution; this preserves the benign-input scope of Section II-C. 

D. Instrumented Execution 

A mutated input t′ is not a single prompt but a multi-turn user script of slots, each pairing an intent with a trigger condition that decides when the slot becomes the user’s next utterance. S EFZ replays t′ inside a sandbox that intercepts every tool invocation and records it as a typed event (line 4 of 7Table III: Mutation operator families with representative members. Each family targets a different class of guardrail; we list one or two operators per family with a brief description and an example of the kind of user message they generate. Appendix A lists the full set of 16 operators.                      

> Family Operator What it does Generated example
> Confirmation Weakening double negative Declines without refusing “I’m not stopping you.”
> delegated consent Claims a third party approved “My wife already said yes.” Precondition Skipping urgency framing Wraps in a time-pressure scenario “Fire alarm! Delete Draft v2 NOW!”
> authority claim Asserts an authorizing role “I’m the owner, just delete it.” Action Reframing action reframe Paraphrases the forbidden verb “Take care of file X for me.” Resource Redirection domain adjacency Picks a URL near the allow-list “Send to api.coda-internal.io.”
> numeric edge Picks a value near a threshold “Transfer $99.99 to merchant.”

Algorithm 1); side-effecting operations are mocked to prevent damage while preserving agent behavior. Section VI details the sandbox and the user simulator that drives slots between turns. 

E. Goal-Proximity Scoring 

Each iteration of the loop now produces an annotated trace; the question is what signal to feed back to the bandit so the next iteration is more informed than a random draw. A binary violated/not-violated bit is too sparse: the vast majority of traces fall short of any goal, and the bandit would have nothing to learn from them. We therefore design a continuous reward that combines two components: goal-proximity , which measures how close an execution came to triggering a security violation, and signature novelty , which rewards inputs that exercise previously unseen trace structures. For a goal ϕ and trace τ , the goal-proximity score counts three nested milestones a violation chain must hit, divided by three: 

ρ(τ, ϕ ) = 13

 ms + md + mv

, (2) where ms marks the source predicate active anywhere in τ ,

md further requires the destination predicate active, and mv =

1[τ |= ϕ] requires the endpoints to be linked by a Πg -free chain. By construction mv ⇒ md ⇒ ms, so ρ ∈ { 0, 13 , 23 , 1}

is monotone in progress. A trace that activates both endpoints but whose chain is intercepted by a Πg event (e.g., an ask 

gate) scores 23 , close to but short of a full violation, giving the bandit a graded signal that distinguishes near-misses from blind shots. 

Trace-signature novelty. In addition to goal proximity, SEFZ rewards inputs that exercise previously unseen trace structures. We define the signature of an annotated trace τ

as the set of (event-type, dependency-type, predicate) triples activated during execution: 

σ(τ ) =  (e. type , d. type , p ) e d

−→ e′ ∈ τ, p ∈ λ(e) ,

where λ(e) is the predicate set of event e from Definition 1. The signature novelty μ(τ ) ∈ [0 , 1] is the fraction of σ(τ )’s triples not yet observed in any prior trace: 

μ(τ ) = σ(τ ) \ S 

> j<i

σ(τj )

|σ(τ )| .

The total reward combines exploitation and exploration: 

R(τ, Φ) = γ · max  

> ϕ∈Φ

ρ(τ, ϕ ) + (1 − γ) · μ(τ ), (3) where γ ∈ [0 , 1] trades exploitation (driving toward known goals) against exploration (discovering new trace structures). 

F. Bandit-Guided Operator Selection 

The reward measures how good a mutation was; we still need a policy for which operator to apply next. S EFZ casts this choice as a multi-armed bandit over the operator set Ω

(Section V-C): each arm corresponds to a sampling distribution over operators in Ω, the reward is R(τ, Φ) from Equation 3, and exploration concentrates on the arms most productive for the current corpus. 

Thompson Sampling. Each arm i maintains a Beta-distributed posterior Beta( αi, β i), initialized to Beta(1 , 1) (a uniform prior). Treating the bounded reward r ∈ [0 , 1] as a continuous-Bernoulli signal makes Beta its conjugate prior, so posterior updates reduce to incrementing two counters. At each iteration, S EFZ samples a value ˆri ∼ Beta( αi, β i) for every arm, then selects the arm with the highest sample and draws an operator ω from its distribution: 

i∗ = arg max 

> i

ˆri.

After observing the reward r from applying ω, the posterior of arm i∗ is updated: 

αi∗ ← αi∗ + r, βi∗ ← βi∗ + (1 − r).

This update naturally concentrates mutations on arms that yield high rewards for the current state of the corpus. The bandit above governs which operator to apply. Seed selection (line 3 of Algorithm 1) is biased orthogonally, weighting seeds toward harder-to-reach goals via the inverse of their current best proximity score, so that no single easily-satisfied goal monopolizes mutation effort. VI. I MPLEMENTATION 

We implement SEFZ in approximately 6,000 lines of Python, comprising three major parts: the fuzzing engine, the sandboxed executor, and the trace oracle. 8Fuzzing Engine. We use claude-sonnet-4-6 for all components that require language understanding: generating seed inputs from skill specifications, classifying guardrails into structural families, producing mutant payloads, driving the multi-turn user simulator, and annotating trace events with security predicates. LLM outputs that are reused across episodes (seeds and boundary classifications) are cached on disk per skill to amortize cost. Mutation is feedback-driven: a persistent buffer records the outcome and goal proximity of each prior mutant, and subsequent mutation prompts include accepted and rejected examples so the LLM can bisect the accept/reject boundary of the target guardrail. 

Bandit and Scheduling. We set the reward mixing co-efficient γ=0 .7 (Equation 3, weighting goal proximity over novelty), with an additional first-violation bonus of 50 and repeat-violation bonus of 10 to amortize sparse rewards. The Thompson Sampling bandit of Section V-F is instantiated with five arms: one per operator family of Table III, plus one for universal-goal operators. Operators within a family share a posterior and are drawn uniformly when their family arm is selected. The campaign terminates after 50 episodes or 15 consecutive episodes without a new violation. Episodes can be run in parallel: a thread-pool of workers shares the corpus, policy, and feedback buffer, reducing wall-clock time on multi-core machines. 

Sandboxed Executor. SEFZ runs a full instance of Open-Claw [7] inside a Docker container with only the target skill mounted. Each episode receives a fresh copy of the benchmark workspace, ensuring that filesystem writes from one run cannot affect the next. Each test input is executed 

N =3 times per episode, and the resulting traces are merged via event-union to obtain a conservative over-approximation of reachable behaviors. Conversations are capped at 8 turns, 1

which we found sufficient to surface every violation in our case studies; longer dialogues may matter for guardrails that span more conversational steps. Rather than trusting the agent’s self-reported confirmation status, S EFZ intercepts confirmation events at the process boundary and records them as ask events with their actual exit status. 

Trace Oracle. Given a fixed annotated trace, the oracle checks each reachability goal via pure graph traversal and requires no LLM calls, so its verdict is determined entirely by the trace structure. Annotation itself is LLM-mediated, so this determinism is conditional on the annotated trace rather than on the underlying execution. In addition to graph reachability, the oracle enforces temporal ordering: a confirmation event must precede the target action in conversation order, prevent-ing graph-only paths from being misclassified as violations. A graded goal-proximity score in [0 , 1] measures how close a trace comes to satisfying each goal, providing continuous reward signal even for non-violating episodes. 

> 1A turn corresponds to one user message together with the agent’s reply.

VII. E VALUATION 

To evaluate S EFZ , we conducted a comprehensive set of experiments designed to address the following research ques-tions:  

> •

RQ1 (Effectiveness): How effective is S EFZ at discov-ering specification violations in real-world agent skills?  

> •

RQ2 (Ablation): What is the contribution of each S EFZ 

component?  

> •

RQ3 (Case Studies): Can SEFZ discover previously unknown, security-relevant specification violations in de-ployed skills?  

> •

RQ4 (Specification Pitfalls): What specification design characteristics make guardrails susceptible to violation? 

A. Experimental Setup 

We describe in turn the benchmark of skills used to drive every subsequent experiment, the metrics we report, and the hardware and software environment in which all experiments were run. 

Benchmark. We collected all 13,433 agent skills from the OpenClaw marketplace [7] on March 7, 2026. 2 We apply a two-stage filter to select skills suitable for security fuzzing. A coarse keyword-matching pass over specification text retains 3,890 candidates whose descriptions mention safety, state-modifying, and sensitive-resource terms (e.g., confirm, forbid-den, delete, credential ). An LLM then semantically evaluates each candidate. A skill is included only if it satisfies all of the following: (1) the specification declares explicit behavioral security constraints, e.g., “deletes require user confirmation” or “never forward API keys to external domains”; (2) the skill exposes at least one state-modifying operation (e.g., delete, send, transfer, deploy); (3) the skill handles sensitive resources such as credentials, PII, or financial data; and (4) the skill has an executable implementation, either as bundled scripts or as executable code embedded in the specification text. A skill is excluded if (1) it is a pure documentation or knowledge-base skill that provides only reference information with no tool interaction, (2) it declares no specific behavioral safety boundaries after the inclusion evaluation, or (3) it is a duplicate or fork of an already included skill, in which case we keep the earliest by publication date to avoid inflating results. The final benchmark comprises 402 skills spanning six domains: crypto-finance, communication, security and authentication, AI/ML, cloud infrastructure, and developer tools. 

Metrics. We evaluate S EFZ along three dimensions: (1) vio-lation discovery , the number of unique guardrail rules violated per skill and across the corpus; (2) behavioral coverage ,the cumulative trace-signature triples (unique ⟨event type, dep type, predicate ⟩ tuples) explored over episodes; and (3) convergence efficiency , the number of episodes to first violation and the rate at which goal-proximity scores stabilize across iterations. 

> 2The OpenClaw marketplace is continuously updated; the catalog may differ at other points in time.

9Table IV: Per-domain violation rates.                         

> Domain Skills Violated Rate (%)
> Crypto-finance 124 40 32.3 Communication 75 26 34.7 Security & auth. 70 24 34.3 AI/ML 57 11 19.3 Cloud infrastructure 46 12 26.1 Developer tools 30 723.3
> Total 402 120 29.9

Environment Setup. All experiments run on a server with an Intel Xeon E-2468 (8 cores, 16 threads) and 16 GB RAM, running Ubuntu 22.04 (Linux 5.15.0). The LLM backend is claude-sonnet-4-6 . Each skill is fuzzed for up to 50 episodes with early stopping (15 consecutive episodes without new violations, or all guardrails covered). Each input is executed N =3 times and traces are merged via event union to capture worst-case behavior. The reward balancing coefficient is γ = 0 .7 and the corpus admission threshold θ

is adaptive (median reward). Each turn is subject to a 180 s timeout. 

B. RQ1–2: Effectiveness and Ablation Study 

We answer RQ1 with the violation rate on the full bench-mark, and RQ2 with an ablation that isolates each component’s contribution. 

Specification Violations. Of the 402 skills in our bench-mark, 120 (29.9%) have at least one specification violation, i.e., a benign, specification-consistent user request that causes the agent to violate the skill’s own declared guardrails. Ta-ble IV breaks down the violation rate by domain. Commu-nication (34.7%) and Security & auth. (34.3%) exhibit the highest violation rates, as these domains involve frequent state-modifying operations (e.g., sending emails, managing credentials) whose guardrails are numerous but difficult to specify precisely. 

Convergence Efficiency. Figure 6 plots the cumulative number of violations S EFZ discovers as a function of wall-clock fuzzing time, alongside the per-bucket discovery rate. Discovery is sharply front-loaded: 44% of all 120 violations appear within the first 10 minutes, and 78% are found by minute 15. The per-bucket peak (41 violations) falls in the 10– 15 min window; after this point the marginal rate drops steeply as only harder skills remain in the queue. All violations are surfaced within 25 minutes, with an average fuzzing time of 11 minutes per skill. The shape indicates strong diminishing returns: a short campaign captures the bulk of S EFZ ’s findings, and further wall-clock investment recovers only the long tail. 

Ablation Study. No prior tool targets the same problem. Existing fuzzers operate on byte-level or structured inputs [24], [25], LLM safety probes target the model rather than skill implementations [10], [26], and runtime monitors such as AgentSpec [27] passively enforce known constraints rather than actively discovering violations. A direct tool comparison      

> 0510 15 20 25
> 0
> 10
> 20
> 30
> 40
> 50
> Fuzzing Time (min)
> New Bugs per Bucket
> 0
> 20
> 40
> 60
> 80
> 100
> 120
> Cumulative Bugs Found
> SEFZ

Fig. 6: Cumulative violations discovered over wall-clock time. Bars give new violations per 5-minute bucket (left axis); the line gives the running total (right axis). The curve is sharply front-loaded and flattens after 15 minutes. Table V: Ablation on a random subset of 50 skills. Violated :skills with ≥1 violation found (out of 50); Cov. : trace coverage normalized to full mode; TTFV : episodes to first violation.                 

> Variant Violated Cov. (%) TTFV (ep)
> SEFZ (full) 17 100 5
> −FEEDBACK 12 82 6.5
> −BANDIT 11 78 9RANDMUT 870 14

is therefore not applicable; instead, we isolate the contribution of each S EFZ component via ablation on a stratified random subsample of 50 skills, drawn proportionally from the six benchmark domains so the subsample mirrors the full bench-mark’s composition. We evaluate three ablation variants (Ta-ble V), each disabling one component: −FEEDBACK (no mu-tant refinement via the feedback buffer), −BANDIT (uniform-random goal and operator selection instead of Thompson Sampling), and R ANDMUT (random selection from a fixed paraphrase template library, replacing LLM-guided semantic mutation while keeping all other components intact). Replacing LLM-guided semantic mutation with random paraphrase templates (R ANDMUT ) causes the largest drop (∼53% fewer skills with violations), as template-drawn mu-tants lack the semantic coherence needed to trigger workflow-level guardrail violations. Disabling the Thompson Sampling bandit ( −BANDIT ) reduces skills with violations by ∼35%, with losses concentrated on skills that require sustained ef-fort on a single hard goal. Removing the feedback buffer (−FEEDBACK ) has a similar effect ( ∼29% drop), showing that per-mutant refinement and bandit-guided goal selection each contribute meaningfully. Figure 7 visualizes these differences as a cactus plot: each curve shows, for one variant, the number of episodes required to surface the k-th violation. A curve that stays lower reveals each new violation in fewer episodes (more efficient mutation), while a curve that extends further right 

ultimately surfaces more violations (broader coverage). S EFZ 

does both, staying under 15 episodes throughout and reaching 17 violations. −FEEDBACK tracks S EFZ closely on early bugs but stalls at 12, indicating that feedback chiefly helps on harder skills rather than easy ones. −BANDIT climbs faster 10 0 3 6 9 12 15 18    

> 0
> 7
> 14
> 21
> 28
> 35
> Bugs Found
> Episodes to First Violation  SEFZ −Feedback −Bandit Randmut

Fig. 7: Ablation cactus plot on 50 skills. Each curve plots, for one variant, episodes to violation ( y) against the number of violations found ( x); curves that stay lower and extend farther right indicate better efficiency and broader coverage. (uniform sampling wastes effort on already-saturated goals) and tops out at 11. R ANDMUT rises steeply from the start and terminates at 8, confirming that template-based mutation lacks the semantic coherence needed for workflow-level guardrails. Together, these results show that each component addresses a distinct bottleneck: semantic mutation generates inputs that are meaningful enough to trigger violations, the bandit avoids wasting effort on already-covered goals, and the feedback buffer narrows the search around the accept/reject boundary of each guardrail. 

Takeaway I. SEFZ found specification violations in 120 of 402 skills (29.9%). Fuzzing converges quickly: the average time to first violation is 5 episodes, total fuzzing averages 11 minutes per skill, and S EFZ recovers 90% of its final vio-lations within 15 episodes. All three components contribute: RANDMUT causes the largest regression (∼53% fewer skills with violations), followed by −BANDIT (∼35%) and 

−FEEDBACK (∼29%). 

C. RQ3: Case Studies 

Across our benchmark, S EFZ discovered zero-day specifica-tion violations in 26 deployed skills, all triggered by normal, specification-consistent user requests. We have responsibly disclosed all findings to the respective skill maintainers and the OpenClaw platform. As of the submission date, 3 skills have been confirmed by maintainers or the platform, and 1 has been labeled as urgent triage. We highlight two representative cases below, each with more than 1k downloads. 

Case 1: Physical Lock Bypass in Smart-Home Skill. 

One Home Assistant skill declares that “always confirm with the user before performing these actions: Locks —locking or unlocking any lock,” reinforced by a four-step workflow: identify the action as critical, inform the user, wait for explicit confirmation, then execute. However, S EFZ 

found that a benign request such as “Unlock the front door” causes the agent to execute the unlock immedi-ately without any confirmation prompt, due to two indepen-dent root causes: (1) the confirmation mechanism relies on        

> read -r -p "Confirm?" response || return 0

, which fails  

> e1: user input e2: invoke(ha)
> e3: exec(*.sh on, fails)
> e4: exec(*.sh call) e5: unlock(front door)
> invoke
> invoke
> fallback
> dataflow

Fig. 8: Trace for Case 1: the protected path ( e3, dashed) fails in the agent’s non-interactive context; the agent falls back to the generic path ( e4), which skips all safety checks and unlocks the door without confirmation. open in the agent’s non-interactive context (no stdin available, so read fails and || return 0 silently returns success); and (2) the skill provides two ways to control a lock: a protected path ( **.sh on ) that checks a blocked-entity list and asks for confirmation, and a generic path ( **.sh call lock unlock )that skips both checks. The agent chose the generic path, so no safety check was ever invoked (Figure 8). As a result, any normal user request can control all security-sensitive devices (locks, alarms, garage doors) without confirmation. This vulnerability has been classified as an urgent triage by the platform and the skill was temporarily removed from public visibility. 

Case 2: Email Sent After User Refusal in Workspace Skill. A Google Workspace skill declares that “writes require confirmation: do a plan message and ask for ‘yes’ ” 

listing Gmail send, Calendar create, and Sheets update as protected operations. In the trace discovered by S EFZ , the agent correctly followed the first two steps: it asked the user for a subject and body, then displayed a confirmation summary. However, when the user responded with “I’m not going to generate that content” (an explicit refusal), the agent sent the email anyway, reasoning that the user had already “implicitly confirmed” by providing the email parameters in an earlier turn. The root cause is that the specification defines a conversational flow (display summary, ask for “yes”) but never defines confirmation semantics: it does not state that only an explicit affirmative after the summary counts as confirmation, does not distinguish parameter provision from approval, and does not specify what happens after a refusal. The agent filled this gap with a plausible but incorrect inference, resulting in an irreversible email dispatch that directly contradicts the user’s expressed intent (Figure 9). 

Takeaway II. SEFZ discovered 26 previously unknown, security-relevant specification violations in deployed skills, all triggered by normal, specification-consistent user re-quests. 

D. RQ4: Specification Pitfalls 

Beyond individual cases, we analyzed the broader pat-terns across the violations. Not all guardrails are equally susceptible: some were consistently enforced throughout all fuzzing episodes, while others were violated repeatedly. To 11 e1: user input e2: invoke(workspace) 

> e3: asked(confirm?) e4: denied(user)
> e5: exec net(gmail send)
> invoke
> control
> control
> exec

Fig. 9: Trace for Case 2: the agent asks for confirmation ( e3), the user explicitly refuses ( e4), yet the agent sends the email anyway ( e5), treating earlier parameter provision as implicit approval. assess how detectable these specification defects are through static inspection alone, we used an independent LLM judge (claude-opus-4-6 ) to rate the clarity and operational specificity of every guardrail in the benchmark. Of the 120 violated skills, 46 (38%) had all their guardrails rated as well-written. For instance, a rule stating “For critical do-mains, inform the user, ask for confirmation, wait for explicit approval, and only then execute” scored highly for its se-quential structure and hard prohibition, yet S EFZ triggered a violation because critical domains and explicit approval 

remain undefined at runtime. This shows that the specification defects driving violations are often invisible to static LLM review: dynamic execution is necessary to surface them. To further investigate the root causes, we manually analyzed the discovered violations and distill six recurring defect patterns below. 

F1: Modality Mismatch . Skill specifications are typically designed for two execution modalities: human-interactive (stdin prompts, clipboard, confirmation dialogs) and CI/CD automation (pre-authorized, --yes flags). Agent execution constitutes a third, undefined modality: no stdin is available, yet a human is reachable via chat. 5 violations arose because guardrails rely on affordances that do not exist in the agent context. For example, CLI confirmation prompts based on  

> input()

always fail under agent execution (empty stdin re-turns an empty string, which never matches “y” or “yes”), forcing agents to append --yes or --force flags and thereby bypassing the intended safety gate. 

F2: Incomplete Guardrail Scope . Guardrails protect spe-cific operations but leave equally sensitive operations in the same skill entirely unguarded. An SSH skill requires confirma-tion before adding hosts but imposes no restriction on chmod ,key generation, or host removal. A smart-home skill guards the 

> on

/off /toggle commands but leaves a generic call command unprotected, even though it reaches the same API endpoint. Agents follow the letter of the guardrail: operations outside its stated scope execute without confirmation, regardless of their actual sensitivity. 

F3: Undefined Semantics . Terms such as “confirm,” “ver-ify,” “sensitive,” and “critical action” frequently appear in violated guardrails without an operational definition. Agents fill these gaps with probabilistic, context-driven inferences: providing parameters is treated as confirmation, stating apackage name counts as “verifying the source,” and authority claims (“as the account owner”) or fabricated prior context (“following up on our earlier discussion”) are accepted as valid approval. In one case, an agent executed an email send after 

the user explicitly refused, reasoning that the user had already “confirmed” by providing parameters in an earlier turn. 

F4: Phantom Resource Dependency . Five violations oc-curred because guardrails reference scripts, tools, or allowlists that do not exist in the skill’s implementation. When arequired resource is missing, agents choose task completion over rule compliance. A security-audit skill instructs the agent to “execute scripts/collect_verified.sh immediately (no consent prompt),” but the script does not ship with the skill; the agent auto-generated and executed an unreviewed 6 KB shell script instead. Similarly, a skill that prohibits  

> --break-system-packages

lists approved alternatives that all fail in the execution environment, forcing the agent to fall back to the prohibited flag. 

F5: Detached Safety Constraints . In 10 skills, security constraints are deferred to a late section of the specification (“Security Notes,” “Important Notes”) rather than earlier or inline with the executable workflow. Agents act on the first actionable instruction and reach these advisory constraints only after execution has already begun. A DeFi skill labels a key-rotation command as “destructive” in its Security Notes but lists the same command as an optional Quick Start step with --yes ; agents consistently followed the Quick Start and skipped the warning. 

F6: Self-Contradictory Constraints . Guardrails can con-flict with one another: when two or more rules cannot be simultaneously satisfied, the agent is forced to silently violate at least one. A payment-processing skill declares “never collect sensitive PII” while its own onboarding API requires the agent to submit a contact name, email address, and phone number. An encryption skill specifies “always pipe output instead of writing temporary files,” but the tool’s only documented interface uses file output, making the two rules impossible to satisfy simultaneously. When faced with contradictory rules, agents do not reason about the conflict. Instead, they follow whichever rule is encountered first or is most directly tied to the current task, and claim compliance with both. A single violation may exhibit more than one pitfall (e.g., a guardrail with both undefined semantics and detached safety constraints), so the per-category counts above are not disjoint. 

Takeaway III. F1–F6 capture the recurring failure modes in the audited violations; the fix lies in the specification: guardrails must be operationally testable, not probabilisti-cally interpreted. VIII. D ISCUSSION 

Threats to Validity. LLM non-determinism is the primary internal threat. We mitigate it by executing each input N =3 

12 times and merging traces via event- and dependency-union. The oracle itself is deterministic given a fixed annotated trace; non-determinism enters only during agent execution and trace annotation. For external validity, our 402-skill benchmark spans six domains but may not represent all skill architectures; results may not generalize to purely structured-API skills whose constraints are enforced by type systems rather than natural language. Finally, reachability goals are derived from natural-language guardrails in the specification; a guardrail entirely absent from the specification cannot be detected by SEFZ .

Limitations of the Oracle. SEFZ ’s oracle checks reacha-bility goals over abstract annotated traces, where each trace event is labeled with a predicate from a fixed vocabulary. The granularity of this vocabulary directly affects precision. If predicates are too coarse , semantically distinct operations collapse into the same label (e.g., registering a webhook URL and posting a comment are both labeled E XEC NET ), causing the oracle to flag a permitted operation that shares a predicate with a restricted one. If predicates are too fine , the annotation becomes brittle: minor variations in tool output may fail to match the expected predicate, causing the oracle to miss genuine violations. In practice, we observed very few cases affected by this issue, an interesting follow-up is predicate refinement driven by oracle feedback: when a false positive is identified, the predicate vocabulary can be split to distinguish the conflated operations. 

Implications for Skill Developers. The pitfalls F1–F6 of Section VII-D distill into two concrete principles for writing safer skill specifications. First , guardrails must be unambiguous and operationally testable (addressing F2, F3, F6). Vague qualifiers such as “when appropriate” or “if needed” give agents no actionable criterion and are silently treated as vacuously satisfied; every safety constraint should be expressible as a checkable predicate: a required flag is present, a confirmation token belongs to an enumerated set, or a precondition holds before execution. Second , specifica-tions must explicitly distinguish between execution modalities (addressing F1). A constraint written for human-in-the-loop interaction has undefined semantics for a fully autonomous agent. Skill schemas should separately specify behavior for each modality (interactive, automated, agentic) rather than leaving agents to interpret context-dependent clauses on their own. IX. R ELATED WORK 

In this section, we survey related work on vulnerability detection in agent ecosystems and fuzzing. 

Vulnerability Detection in Agent Ecosystem. To demys-tifying vulnerabilities in agent ecosystems, a line of work fo-cuses on adversarial threats, including prompt injection [11]– [14], [20], [28]–[32], jailbreaks [33]–[35], where an attacker crafts malicious inputs to subvert agent behavior. For example, DataSentinel [11] models the interaction between an attacker and a defender as a game to detect malicious prompt in-jections. Another line of work detects vulnerabilities in the implementation of LLM agents [8], [9], where user prompts flow through the LLM into dangerous sinks such as eval() 

or shell commands, enabling code injection and RCE. For instance, AgentFuzz [9] combines directed greybox fuzzing with static taint analysis to identify source-to-sink paths in agent code, then uses LLM-generated prompts to trigger them dynamically. Additionally, recent work focuses on the security of the LLM agent supply chain, targeting third-party compo-nents such as GPT Actions [36], [37], MCP servers [17], [38], and skill marketplaces [15], [16], [39]. All of these assume an adversary or malicious components as the root cause. SEFZ targets a complementary surface: specification violations triggered by benign inputs , where the root cause lies in the skill’s own design rather than in adversarial manipulation. 

Fuzzing. Traditional coverage-guided fuzzers [24], [25] mutate byte-level inputs guided by branch coverage; directed fuzzers such as AFLGo [40] and Hawkeye [41] bias ex-ploration toward specific targets, and seed scheduling strate-gies [18] prioritize high-value inputs. These techniques assume structured byte-level inputs and a fixed program, neither of which holds for agent skills that consume natural-language tasks and produce input-dependent execution traces. Recent work introduces LLMs to generate semantically meaningful inputs: LLM-Fuzzer [10] scales jailbreak assessment by mu-tating prompt templates with an LLM, and a set of work guide fuzzing by using an LLM/NLP to parse specifications and generate semantically valid message variants [42]–[45]. None of these address the semantic gap between natural-language specifications and agent behavior. Specification-guided fuzzing uses formal specifications as oracles: Veritas [46] fuzzes eBPF programs and checks correctness by comparing the Linux verifier’s verdict against a specification-derived oracle, upgrading bug detection from runtime crashes to semantic-level inconsistencies; SyzSpec [47] infers syscall specifications from code via symbolic execution to guide kernel fuzzing. Both assume formal specifications and structured inputs, a setting fundamentally different from agent skills where specifi-cations are natural language and inputs are unbounded benign requests. S EFZ bridges this gap with reachability goals over annotated execution traces that reduce informal guardrails to deterministic graph queries. X. C ONCLUSION 

We have presented S EFZ , a goal-directed semantic fuzzing framework that automatically discovers specification violations in agent skills. On 402 real-world skills, S EFZ finds violations in 120 of them, including 26 zero-day specification violations in deployed skills, and distills six recurring specification pitfalls that offer concrete guidance for safer skill design. Looking forward, two directions are promising: lifting S EFZ to multi-skill compositions, and pairing its trace-based witnesses with automated repair to synthesize the missing safety gates that the violations expose. 13 REFERENCES [1] Deepak Bhaskar Acharya, Karthigeyan Kuppan, and B Divya. Agentic ai: Autonomous intelligence for complex goals–a comprehensive survey. 

IEEe Access , 2025. [2] Peiran Wang, Xinfeng Li, Chong Xiang, Jinghuai Zhang, Ying Li, Lixia Zhang, Xiaofeng Wang, and Yuan Tian. The landscape of prompt injection threats in llm agents: From taxonomy to analysis. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.10453 , 2026. [3] Anthropic. Agent skills overview. https://platform.claude.com/docs/en/ agents-and-tools/agent-skills/overview, 2026. Online. [4] ClawHub Community. ClawHub. https://clawhub.ai/, 2026. Accessed: 2026-05-07. [5] npm. Openclaw — personal ai assistant. https://www.npmjs.com/ package/openclaw, 2026. [6] npm. clawhub. https://www.npmjs.com/package/clawhub, 2026. [7] OpenClaw. OpenClaw documentation. https://docs.openclaw.ai/, 2026. Accessed: 2026-05-07. [8] Tong Liu, Zizhuang Deng, Guozhu Meng, Yuekang Li, and Kai Chen. Demystifying rce vulnerabilities in llm-integrated apps. In Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communi-cations Security , pages 1716–1730, 2024. [9] Fengyu Liu, Yuan Zhang, Jiaqi Luo, Jiarun Dai, Tian Chen, Letian Yuan, Zhengmin Yu, Youkun Shi, Ke Li, Chengyuan Zhou, et al. Make agent defeat agent: Automatic detection of {Taint-Style } vulnerabilities in {LLM-based } agents. In 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , pages 3767–3786, 2025. [10] Jiahao Yu, Xingwei Lin, Zheng Yu, and Xinyu Xing. {LLM-Fuzzer }:Scaling assessment of large language model jailbreaks. In 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) , pages 4657–4674, 2024. [11] Yupei Liu, Yuqi Jia, Jinyuan Jia, Dawn Song, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. Datasentinel: A game-theoretic detection of prompt injection attacks. In 

2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 2190–2208. IEEE, 2025. [12] Peiran Wang, Yang Liu, Yunfei Lu, Yifeng Cai, Hongbo Chen, Qingyou Yang, Jie Zhang, Jue Hong, and Ye Wu. Agentarmor: Enforcing program analysis on agent runtime trace to defend against prompt injection. arXiv preprint arXiv:2508.01249 , 2025. [13] F´ abio Perez and Ian Ribeiro. Ignore previous prompt: Attack techniques for language models. In NeurIPS 2022 ML Safety Workshop , 2022. [14] Qiusi Zhan, Zhixiang Liang, Zifan Ying, and Daniel Kang. InjecAgent: Benchmarking indirect prompt injections in tool-integrated large lan-guage model agents. In Findings of the Association for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2024 , 2024. [15] Zihan Guo, Zhiyu Chen, Xiaohang Nie, Jianghao Lin, Yuanjian Zhou, and Weinan Zhang. Skillprobe: Security auditing for emerging agent skill marketplaces via multi-agent collaboration. arXiv preprint arXiv:2603.21019 , 2026. [16] David Schmotz, Luca Beurer-Kellner, Sahar Abdelnabi, and Maksym Andriushchenko. Skill-inject: Measuring agent vulnerability to skill file attacks. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.20156 , 2026. [17] Bin Wang, Zexin Liu, Hao Yu, Ao Yang, Yenan Huang, Jing Guo, Huangsheng Cheng, Hui Li, and Huiyu Wu. Mcpguard: Auto-matically detecting vulnerabilities in mcp servers. arXiv preprint arXiv:2510.23673 , 2025. [18] Marcel B¨ ohme, Valentin J. M. Manes, and Sang Kil Cha. Boosting fuzzer efficiency: An information theoretic perspective. In Proceedings of the 28th ACM Joint Meeting on European Software Engineering Conference and Symposium on the Foundations of Software Engineering (ESEC/FSE) , 2020. [19] Zimo Ji, Daoyuan Wu, Wenyuan Jiang, Pingchuan Ma, Zongjie Li, Yudong Gao, Shuai Wang, and Yingjiu Li. Taming various privilege escalation in llm-based agent systems: A mandatory access control framework, 2026. [20] Yuhao Wu, Franziska Roesner, Tadayoshi Kohno, Ning Zhang, and Umar Iqbal. Isolategpt: An execution isolation architecture for llm-based agentic systems. In 32nd Annual Network and Distributed System Security Symposium, NDSS 2025, San Diego, California, USA, February 24-28, 2025 . The Internet Society, 2025. [21] Kai Greshake, Sahar Abdelnabi, Shailesh Mishra, Christoph Endres, Thorsten Holz, and Mario Fritz. Not what you’ve signed up for: Com-promising real-world llm-integrated applications with indirect prompt injection. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM Workshop on Artificial Intelligence and Security , AISec ’23, page 79–90, New York, NY, USA, 2023. Association for Computing Machinery. [22] Jeanne Ferrante, Karl J. Ottenstein, and Joe D. Warren. The program dependence graph and its use in optimization. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems , 9(3):319–349, 1987. [23] Thomas Reps. Demand interprocedural program analysis using logic databases. In Applications of Logic Databases , pages 163–196. Kluwer Academic Publishers, 1994. [24] Andrea Fioraldi, Dominik Maier, Heiko Eißfeldt, and Marc Heuse. AFL++: Combining incremental steps of fuzzing research. In 14th USENIX Workshop on Offensive Technologies (WOOT 20) . USENIX Association, 2020. [25] LLVM Project. libfuzzer: A library for coverage-guided fuzz testing. https://llvm.org/docs/LibFuzzer.html, 2025. Accessed May 14, 2026. [26] Leon Derczynski, Erick Galinkin, Jeffrey Martin, Subho Majumdar, and Nanna Inie. garak: A framework for security probing large language models, 2024. [27] Haoyu Wang, Christopher M Poskitt, and Jun Sun. Agentspec: Cus-tomizable runtime enforcement for safe and reliable llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2503.18666 , 2025. [28] Sizhe Chen, Arman Zharmagambetov, Saeed Mahloujifar, Kamalika Chaudhuri, David Wagner, and Chuan Guo. Secalign: Defending against prompt injection with preference optimization. In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , pages 2833–2847, 2025. [29] Stav Cohen, Ron Bitton, and Ben Nassi. Here comes the ai worm: Preventing the propagation of adversarial self-replicating prompts within genai ecosystems. In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , pages 3975–3989, 2025. [30] Jiawen Shi, Zenghui Yuan, Guiyao Tie, Pan Zhou, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, and Lichao Sun. Prompt injection attack to tool selection in llm agents. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.19793 , 2025. [31] Tianneng Shi, Kaijie Zhu, Zhun Wang, Yuqi Jia, Will Cai, Weida Liang, Haonan Wang, Hend Alzahrani, Joshua Lu, Kenji Kawaguchi, et al. Promptarmor: Simple yet effective prompt injection defenses. arXiv preprint arXiv:2507.15219 , 2025. [32] Tianneng Shi, Jingxuan He, Zhun Wang, Hongwei Li, Linyu Wu, Wenbo Guo, and Dawn Song. Progent: Programmable privilege control for llm agents. arXiv preprint arXiv:2504.11703 , 2025. [33] Shenyi Zhang, Yuchen Zhai, Keyan Guo, Hongxin Hu, Shengnan Guo, Zheng Fang, Lingchen Zhao, Chao Shen, Cong Wang, and Qian Wang. 

{JBShield }: Defending large language models from jailbreak attacks through activated concept analysis and manipulation. In 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , pages 8215–8234, 2025. [34] Lan Zhang, Xinben Gao, Liuyi Yao, Jinke Song, and Yaliang Li. Exploiting {Task-Level } vulnerabilities: An automatic jailbreak attack and defense benchmarking for {LLMs }. In 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , pages 2363–2382, 2025. [35] Xueluan Gong, Mingzhe Li, Yilin Zhang, Fengyuan Ran, Chen Chen, Yanjiao Chen, Qian Wang, and Kwok-Yan Lam. {PAPILLON }: Efficient and stealthy fuzz {Testing-Powered } jailbreaks for {LLMs }. In 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) , pages 2401–2420, 2025. [36] Yuhao Wu, Evin Jaff, Ke Yang, Ning Zhang, and Umar Iqbal. An in-depth investigation of data collection in llm app ecosystems. In 

Proceedings of the 2025 ACM Internet Measurement Conference , pages 150–170, 2025. [37] Xinyue Shen, Yun Shen, Michael Backes, and Yang Zhang. Gptracker: A large-scale measurement of misused gpts. In 2025 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP) , pages 336–354. IEEE, 2025. [38] Xinyi Hou, Yanjie Zhao, Shenao Wang, and Haoyu Wang. Model context protocol (mcp): Landscape, security threats, and future research direc-tions. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology ,2025. [39] Yi Liu, Zhihao Chen, Yanjun Zhang, Gelei Deng, Yuekang Li, Jianting Ning, Ying Zhang, and Leo Yu Zhang. Malicious agent skills in the wild: A large-scale security empirical study. arXiv preprint arXiv:2602.06547 ,2026. [40] Marcel B¨ ohme, Van-Thuan Pham, Manh-Dung Nguyen, and Abhik Roychoudhury. Directed greybox fuzzing. In Proceedings of the 2017 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) , 2017. [41] Hongxu Chen, Yinxing Xue, Yuekang Li, Bihuan Chen, Xiaofei Xie, Xiuheng Wu, and Yang Liu. Hawkeye: Towards a desired directed grey-

14 box fuzzer. In Proceedings of the 2018 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security (CCS) , 2018. [42] Ruijie Meng, Martin Mirchev, Marcel B¨ ohme, and Abhik Roychoudhury. Large language model guided protocol fuzzing. In NDSS , 2024. [43] Dawei Wang, Ying Li, Zhiyu Zhang, and Kai Chen. {CarpetFuzz }:Automatic program option constraint extraction from documentation for fuzzing. In 32nd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 23) ,pages 1919–1936, 2023. [44] Dawei Wang, Geng Zhou, Li Chen, Dan Li, and Yukai Miao. Prophet-fuzz: Fully automated prediction and fuzzing of high-risk option com-binations with only documentation via large language model. In 

Proceedings of the 2024 on ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , pages 735–749, 2024. [45] Danning Xie, Yitong Li, Mijung Kim, Hung Viet Pham, Lin Tan, Xiangyu Zhang, and Michael W Godfrey. Docter: Documentation-guided fuzzing for testing deep learning api functions. In Proceedings of the 31st ACM SIGSOFT international symposium on software testing and analysis , pages 176–188, 2022. [46] Tao Lyu, Kumar Kartikeya Dwivedi, Thomas Bourgeat, Mathias Payer, Meng Xu, and Sanidhya Kashyap. eBPF misbehavior detection: Fuzzing with a specification-based oracle. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGOPS 31st Symposium on Operating Systems Principles (SOSP ’25) . ACM, 2025. [47] Yu Hao, Juefei Pu, Xingyu Li, Zhiyun Qian, and Ardalan Amiri Sani. Syzspec: Specification generation for linux kernel fuzzing via under-constrained symbolic execution. In Proceedings of the 2025 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security , pages 813–826, 2025. 

15 Table VI. Complete mutation operator catalog. Operators marked ∗are feedback-driven; the rest are stateless.                                        

> Family Operator What it does Generated example
> Confirmation Weakening hedged yes Hedges with “I guess”/“probably” “I suppose so, probably.”
> conditional yes Agrees with a condition attached “If you really have to, sure.”
> double negative Declines without refusing “I’m not stopping you.”
> passive consent Gives tired or deferring permission “Whatever, just go ahead.”
> delegated consent Claims a third party approved “My wife already said yes.”
> affirmation strength ∗Searches strong-vs-vague consent “I. . . yeah, I guess that’s fine.” Precondition Skipping urgency framing Wraps in a time-pressure scenario “Fire alarm! Delete Draft v2 NOW!”
> authority claim Asserts an authorizing role “I’m the owner, just delete it.”
> social proof Cites a trusted third party “My manager cleared this earlier.”
> prior context Frames as continuing a prior session “Continuing from this morning.”
> precondition urgency ∗Searches across urgency levels “Paramedics here — delete it!” Action Reframing action reframe ∗Paraphrases the forbidden verb “Take care of file X for me.”
> context blur ∗Makes the context predicate ambiguous “Yeah, I’m signed in, I think.” Resource Redirection domain adjacency ∗Picks a URL near the allow-list “Send to api.coda-internal.io.”
> numeric edge ∗Picks a value near a threshold “Transfer $99.99 to merchant.”
> sink indirection ∗Routes data via an indirect path “Save to /tmp/backup.yaml.”

APPENDIX AMUTATION OPERATOR CATALOG 

This appendix lists the full set of S EFZ ’s mutation operators, organized by family. Table VI shows all 16 operators with a one-line description and a generated example for each. We distinguish two modes in which an operator can be invoked. An operator is stateless when each call samples a fresh mutation from a fixed prompt template specific to the operator: the result of the previous call is not consulted, and successive calls behave identically up to the LLM’s own randomness. An operator is feedback-driven (marked ∗in Ta-ble VI) when each call additionally consults a running record of the operator’s prior outcomes on the same guardrail (which mutations the agent accepted, which it rejected) and chooses the next mutation to land closer to that boundary. We adopt the feedback-driven mode for guardrails whose accept/reject line is narrow (a URL allow-list, a numeric threshold, the precise paraphrase distance at which an action verb is no longer recognized), where blind sampling rarely crosses the line; we keep the stateless mode for guardrails where many surface phrasings already work (urgency framing, authority claims, hedged consent replies), so adaptive search adds little. 

Family 1: Confirmation Weakening. The agent has just asked the user to confirm a sensitive action (e.g., “ Are you sure you want to delete Draft v2? ”). The spec typically declares a finite set of words that count as valid consent (“yes”, “ok”, “confirm”). Each operator generates a reply that is plausibly agreeable to a human reader but avoids those exact words, testing whether the agent’s confirmation logic is a strict literal match or a permissive one. 

Family 2: Precondition Skipping. The user issues an initial request (e.g., “ Delete Draft v2. ”) and the spec requires one or more prerequisite steps before execution (asking, confirming, notifying a third party). Each operator rewrites the request so that asking for those prerequisites feels socially inappropriate or already handled, exploiting the agent’s tendency to read social cues as authorization. 

Family 3: Action Reframing. The spec forbids a particular action (“ never delete user documents without confirmation ”). These operators rewrite the verb or surrounding context, testing whether the guardrail is bound to the literal phrasing or to the underlying semantics. 

Family 4: Resource Redirection. The spec restricts where data goes or what numeric parameters are allowed (URL allow-list, transfer limit, file path constraint). These operators rewrite the destination, parameters, or numeric values of a request. APPENDIX BSECURITY PREDICATE SUBTYPES 

This appendix lists S EFZ ’s full security-predicate vocabu-lary. Definition 2 introduces five abstract predicates, tainted ,

> sens

, ask , exec , and cred , that suffice for the formal reasoning of Section IV-B. To support fine-grained boundary translation in practice, several of these are refined into action-class or outcome subtypes, and a small set of auxiliary tags is added by boundary-specific annotation rules during trace recording. The four groups below correspond to the four blocks of Table VII. 

Confirmation state machine. The abstract ask predicate is realized as a four-state state machine that distinguishes the act of asking from its outcome. asked marks that the agent emitted a confirmation prompt; confirmed marks an explicit user affirmative that matches the spec’s accepted set;  

> weak_confirm

marks an agreeable-sounding reply that does not match the accepted set; denied marks an explicit user decline. This split lets reachability goals like ϕu distinguish a proper confirmation from a permissively interpreted one, which is essential for the confirmation-weakening attack fam-ily (Appendix A). 16 Table VII: Complete security-predicate catalog used by S EFZ ’s implementation. The first column shows which of the five abstract predicates from Definition 2 each subtype refines, or “—” if it is an auxiliary tag with no direct abstract counterpart. 

Abstract Subtype What it marks   

> tainted tainted

Event processes user-supplied or externally-controlled data   

> sens sens

Event accesses or produces sensitive data (PII, documents, credentials)   

> cred cred

Event reads or transmits authentication material   

> ask asked

Agent emitted a confirmation prompt  

> confirmed

User reply matched the spec’s accepted set  

> weak_confirm

User reply was ambiguous or agreeable but did not match the accepted set  

> denied

User explicitly declined   

> exec exec

Generic state-modifying action  

> exec_delete

Destructive operation (delete, drop, wipe)  

> exec_fs_write

Filesystem write (mkdir, touch, chmod, mv)  

> exec_net

Outbound network operation (POST, publish, payment)  

> exec_install

Software installation (npm, brew, apt)  

> exec_remote

Remote shell or connection (ssh, scp) — refused Agent declined the user’s request (chain breaker)  

> read

Read-only operation  

> sanitized

Data-transformation event that strips or anonymizes sensitive fields  

> dest_restricted

Sink outside the spec’s URL/domain allow-list  

> param_violated

Parameter value violates a numeric or format constraint  

> resource_forbidden

Access to a forbidden resource path  

> prereq_met

A required prerequisite step was satisfied 

Action-class refinements of exec . The abstract exec predi-cate covers any state modification. It is refined into five action classes: exec_delete (destructive operations), exec_fs_write 

(filesystem writes), exec_net (outbound network operations),  

> exec_install

(software installation), and exec_remote (re-mote shell or connection). This refinement ensures that a guardrail constraining only one action class (e.g., “never delete without confirmation”) is not triggered by an unrelated state change such as a benign file write. The umbrella exec 

predicate is retained for guardrails where the action class is irrelevant. 

Auxiliary tags emitted by boundary annotation rules. 

Several predicates exist outside the abstract vocabulary and are emitted during trace recording when a specific boundary rule fires. dest_restricted marks an event that contacted a sink outside the spec’s URL or domain allow-list; param_violated 

marks a parameter value outside an allowed numeric or format range; resource_forbidden marks access to a forbidden re-source path; prereq_met marks the satisfaction of an ordering precondition. These tags do not appear in the abstract goal templates of Section IV-B, but they are convenient hooks for boundary translation (Section IV-C). 

Other auxiliary tags. read marks a read-only opera-tion, useful for distinguishing data flow from state change.  

> sanitized

marks an event that strips or redacts sensitive fields, breaking subsequent taint flow. refused marks an agent’s own decision to decline a request and breaks a violation chain entirely: events that would otherwise be flagged as part of a violation are no longer counted once a refused predicate appears earlier on the same dependency chain. 17