Title: Sovereign Execution Brokers: Enforcing Certificate-Bound Authority in Agentic Control Planes

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.20520v1

Published Time: Fri, 19 Jun 2026 01:18:25 GMT

Number of Pages: 19

Markdown Content:
# Sovereign Execution Brokers: Enforcing Certificate-Bound Authority in Agentic Control Planes 

## Jun He OpenKedge.io Deying Yu OpenKedge.io 

## Abstract 

Autonomous agents are increasingly connected to cloud, de-ployment, and data-control workflows, but production mu-tation authority should not reside inside non-deterministic reasoning processes. Existing access-control mechanisms au-thorize identities, while assurance layers certify proposed ac-tions; neither alone provides a mandatory enforcement point for certified authority at the moment of mutation. This paper introduces the Sovereign Execution Broker (SEB), a runtime enforcement boundary for certificate-bound agentic infras-tructure. SEB consumes certificates issued by the Sovereign Assurance Boundary (SAB), verifies that the requested muta-tion matches the certified execution contract, checks validity windows, policy epochs, revocation epochs, and live-state drift, mints scoped execution identity, invokes infrastructure APIs, and records signed decision and outcome records. By separating proposal, admission, and execution, SEB turns cer-tified authority into a short-lived, revocable, auditable run-time capability, provided that production mutation APIs reject non-broker identities. We present the SEB execution model, certificate and replay-verification predicates, scoped identity semantics, bypass-prevention deployment patterns, failure be-havior, and a concrete prototype implementation. We evaluate the prototype on AWS and Kubernetes clusters, measuring la-tency overheads, revocation propagation, drift detection, and security under fault injection. 

## 1 Introduction 

As autonomous systems powered by Large Language Models (LLMs) transition from passive analytical assistants to active operational planners, they are increasingly integrated into pro-duction infrastructure. Today, autonomous agents are tasked with auto-scaling compute groups, deploying containers, con-figuring cloud security groups, and managing databases. How-ever, because these agents use non-deterministic reasoning processes, granting them direct access credentials creates se-vere security and operational risks. A single hallucination or adversarial prompt injection can trigger unauthorized or destructive infrastructure mutations. To mitigate these risks, recent architectures have introduced institutional admission gates such as the Sovereign Assur-ance Boundary ( SAB ) [1] to certify agentic proposals before they are executed. SAB evaluates proposed actions against safety and operational contracts, producing a cryptographi-cally signed certificate ( Ω) upon successful validation. How-ever, an admission certificate is not enforcement unless the target infrastructure mutation paths actively require a broker to verify it. In the OpenKedge stack, Semantic Quorum Assurance ( SQA ) validates proposed actions, SAB certifies admitted au-thority, and SEB enforces the resulting certificates at mutation time. If agents or their runtime wrappers continue to hold stand-ing production credentials, the assurance layer can be by-passed entirely. For example, a compromised wrapper or a direct API execution path could allow an agent to perform actions without ever submitting its proposals to the admis-sion gate. Moreover, even when an agent complies with the admission process, the time lag between proposal admission and actual execution creates a window of vulnerability where the underlying state can drift, or the security environment can change. To address this gap, we introduce the Sovereign Execution Broker ( SEB ). As shown in Figure 1, SEB is the runtime enforcement boundary for certificate-bound agentic control planes. In the intended deployment, no agent runtime holds standing mutation credentials. Instead, all autonomous mu-tation requests must go through the SEB , which acts as the custodian of execution authority. At the moment of muta-tion, SEB verifies the SAB certificate, matches the request against the certified contract, checks revocation and drift, mints short-lived scoped credentials, executes the mutation, and logs signed decision or outcome records. 

Contributions. This paper makes four contributions: 1

> arXiv:2606.20520v1 [cs.CR] 18 Jun 2026 Agent Proposal
> SAB Boundary
> Certificate
> Ω
> Sovereign Execution Broker
> Scoped Mutation
> Decision / Outcome Ledger

Figure 1: OpenKedge pipeline from agent proposal to runtime enforcement. In the intended deployment, the Sovereign Exe-cution Broker is the only autonomous-path entity possessing credentials to mutate state, which it does only upon verifying a valid certificate Ω and writing signed decision or outcome records to the ledger. 1. Broker-enforced autonomy. We identify the enforce-ment gap between certified autonomous proposals and actual infrastructure mutation, and define the Sovereign Execution Broker as the runtime boundary that prevents autonomous agents from holding or exercising standing production credentials. 2. A certificate-verification execution model. 

We formalize the broker execution interface 

Execute (Ω , req, S t, P latf orm ) → D | O, where the broker verifies the SAB certificate Ω, matches the requested mutation against the certified contract C,checks validity windows, policy epochs, revocation epochs, and live-state drift before executing. 3. Scoped execution identity and revocation-before-execution. We introduce a least-privilege identity model in which credentials are minted only at execution time, scoped to the certified contract, target resource, validity window, and revocation epoch. This ensures that pending certificates can be invalidated before mutation and that agents never receive reusable mutation authority. 4. Prototype implementation and empirical evaluation. 

We implement the broker as a Go service with adapters for AWS STS and Kubernetes TokenRequest, and de-ploy it as a mandatory mutation path. We evaluate the prototype under realistic workloads, reporting p50, p95, and p99 execution latencies, microbenchmarks for cryp-tographic and drift validation, revocation propagation delays, and behavior under induced partition and crash-recovery scenarios. 

## 2 Background and Motivation 

SEB is motivated by a mismatch between identity-centric access control and certificate-bound autonomous mutations. Table 1: SEB compared to existing authorization and safety enforcement mechanisms.              

> Mechanism Enforces Missing
> IAM Identity permissions Proposal semantics OPA Policy predicates Certificate-bound au-thority Audit Log After-the-fact record Pre-execution preven-tion SAB Admission certificate Mutation-time en-forcement
> SEB Certificate-bound execution Requires manda-tory mutation-path deployment

2.1 Why IAM is Insufficient 

Traditional Identity and Access Management (IAM) systems are designed under the assumption of human-driven or static programmatic execution. An IAM policy typically answers a binary authorization query: 

“Is this principal (e.g., identity or role) authorized to perform this API operation on this resource?” 

In agentic control planes, this model fails. Autonomous agents reason dynamically and non-deterministically; thus, granting an agent static IAM credentials means trusting all subsequent logic generated by that agent. If the agent’s prompts are hi-jacked or its reasoning loop fails, those static permissions allow the agent to execute arbitrary destructive operations (e.g., deleting databases or opening public ports). In contrast, a Sovereign Execution Broker ( SEB ) evaluates a much richer context. Rather than validating static identity permissions, SEB answers: 

“Is this specific, certified mutation request still valid under the current system evidence, active policy epoch, revocation epoch, live-state drift, and cryptographic scope?” 

By shifting authorization from the identity to the certified action itself, SEB removes standing mutation credentials from agent runtimes when the deployment denies all non-broker mutation identities. 

2.2 Why SAB Needs a Broker 

The Sovereign Assurance Boundary ( SAB ) provides institu-tional admission control by validating the semantic safety of proposed agent actions [1]. At the conclusion of validation, SAB emits a signed certificate Ω. However, Ω is merely a cryptographic assertion. Without a runtime broker that acts as the sole credential holder, Ω becomes a post-hoc audit arti-fact. An agent could easily bypass the admission process by calling APIs directly using standing credentials, or execute expired/invalidated certificates. 2Therefore, SAB and SEB form a complementary pair: SAB decides whether a proposal may become authority at admis-sion time, whereas SEB enforces that authority at the moment of mutation. 

2.3 Running Example 

To illustrate the need for SEB , consider a security group change where an autonomous agent Aops is tasked with open-ing a firewall port for a new service. 1. Proposal: Aops proposes a contract Cf w to open port 

443 to CIDR 10 .0.0.0/16 .2. Admission: SAB validates Cf w against corporate fire-wall policy and issues certificate Ωf w .3. Intervening Event: Before execution, the security en-vironment drifts: the subnet is decommissioned, or a global emergency revocation epoch advances. 4. Runtime Check: When the wrapper requests execution, the SEB intercepts the request and checks the live state 

St. Because the target subnet is invalid or the certificate’s epoch is stale, SEB rejects the execution. 5. Execution: If all checks pass, SEB mints a short-lived IAM token bound strictly to the target security group and the port-opening operation, executes it, and logs the outcome. This flow prevents the agent from holding standing credentials to edit the security group, and the broker rejects replay under drifted conditions, assuming the cloud API rejects non-broker mutation identities. 

## 3 System and Threat Model 

The SEB threat model separates untrusted autonomous plan-ning from trusted admission, broker execution, and target-platform enforcement. 

3.1 System Components 

The system consists of the following components: • Agent Runtime: An untrusted, non-deterministic rea-soning loop (e.g., an LLM-based agent) that plans and proposes infrastructure mutations. • SAB Admission Boundary: The trusted admission gate-way that intercepts proposals, verifies their safety using Semantic Quorum Assurance ( SQA ) or policy engines, and emits cryptographically signed certificates Ω.• Sovereign Execution Broker (SEB): The trusted ex-ecution boundary that intercepts all mutation requests, verifies certificates, checks live state, and performs exe-cution. • Target Infrastructure: The cloud APIs (e.g., AWS, GCP) or orchestrators (e.g., Kubernetes) undergoing mu-tations. • Revocation Service: A service maintaining the current global policy and revocation epoch ρactive .• Ledger: An append-only log capturing the detailed out-comes of broker decisions and executions. • Identity Provider / IAM: The system (e.g., AWS STS, Kubernetes token issuer) that mints credentials. • Evidence Sources: Distributed monitors supplying real-world state evidence to both SAB and SEB. 

3.2 Trust Assumptions 

We partition the system components into trusted boundaries and untrusted or fallible components: 

Trusted Components. We assume the integrity of: • The SEB execution environment (e.g., running within a secure enclave or highly restricted private network segment). • The SAB signing key, the SEB signing key, and the cor-responding public verification keys. • The global Revocation Epoch Service, which distributes epoch updates. • The local Cloud Provider’s Identity Provider (IdP) for minting short-lived session credentials. • The target platform’s IAM, RBAC, admission-control, and policy-enforcement mechanisms that reject mutation identities outside the broker path. • The append-only properties of the Ledger. 

Deployment Assumptions. The enforcement theorem in Section 9 relies on three operational configuration assump-tions. First, no agent runtime or wrapper possesses standing credentials that authorize production mutation. Second, we define authorized mutation principals as the broker role plus broker-issued execution sessions created after certificate veri-fication; target APIs accept mutation requests only from this set. Third, emergency break-glass identities are outside the autonomous agent path and are separately authenticated, au-thorized, and audited. 3Untrusted or Fallible Components. We do not assume the security or correctness of: • The Agent Runtime or its internal prompting context. • Individual semantic validators within the SQA quorums, which may be compromised or exhibit model bias. • Local operators or administrators (who could attempt malicious emergency overrides). • Live target-state observations, which may be delayed due to eventual consistency. 

3.3 Threat Model 

The security objective of SEB is to ensure that, within the deployment assumptions above, production mutations occur only through broker verification of authorized, fresh certifi-cates. We consider an adversary who can compromise the agent runtime, inject prompts, intercept network packets, or manipulate the target state between the time of certificate issuance and execution. Specifically, SEB defends against the following threat vectors: • Broker Bypass: The agent attempts to directly invoke cloud APIs using standing credentials, bypassing both admission gates and the broker. • Stale Certificate Replay: The adversary captures a pre-viously executed certificate Ω and attempts to replay it to execute the mutation again. • Request-Certificate Mismatch: The agent receives a certificate for a safe mutation (e.g., restarting a service) but submits a request for a destructive operation (e.g., terminating the database). • Time-of-Check to Time-of-Use (TOCTOU) Drift: The state of the infrastructure changes between the time SAB issues the certificate and when SEB receives it, rendering the original contract dangerous. • Stale Epoch / Revocation Bypass: The certificate is revoked or the system’s global security policies are up-graded, but the agent tries to use an older certificate. • Overbroad Credential Abuse: The agent attempts to leverage session credentials minted for a specific re-source to mutate unrelated resources. • Broker Partition: The agent attempts to execute muta-tions during a network partition that prevents the broker from contacting the Revocation Service. 

## 4 Broker Execution Model 

The core of the SEB architecture is a formal verification and execution pipeline over certificates, execution requests, live target state, platform scopeability, signed DecisionRecords, and signed OutcomeRecords. 

4.1 Broker Execution Interface 

The Sovereign Execution Broker acts as a gatekeeper. It con-sumes an SAB certificate Ω, a concrete execution request 

req , the live state of the target infrastructure St, and a plat-form descriptor that captures the target API’s native scoping mechanisms. The interface is defined as: 

Execute (Ω , req, S t, P latf orm ) → D or O (1) where D is a signed D ECISION RECORD for verification rejec-tion or non-execution, and O is a signed O UTCOME RECORD 

for a target mutation attempt. An admitted contract is represented as: 

C = ( op, target, params, constraints, risk _level ) (2) where op is the intended API operation, target is the re-source or endpoint to mutate, params is the proposed pay-load, constraints contains policy-level bounds on the muta-tion, and risk _level records the assurance tier under which the action was admitted. A SAB certificate is represented as: 

Ω = ( cid, C, E admit , T valid , P ver , ρ rev ,nonce, issuer, σ SAB ) (3) where cid is the contract identifier, Eadmit is the evidence state used during admission, Tvalid is the certificate validity interval, Pver is the admitted policy version, ρrev is the revo-cation epoch at admission time, nonce is a single-use fresh-ness value, issuer identifies the SAB admission boundary, and σSAB is the SAB signature over the canonical certificate body. An execution request req is represented as a tuple: 

req = ( cid, op, target, params, caller, t exec , nonce ) (4) where: • cid : The unique identifier of the contract C validated by SAB. • op : The requested operation or API action. • target : The target infrastructure resource or endpoint identifier. • params : The exact parameters supplied to the API op-eration. 4Table 2: Broker verification checks, inputs, and records emit-ted on failure. 

Check Input Failure Record 

Signature Φsig Ω, σ SAB D: reject Contract match Φmatch req, Ω, C D: reject Validity Φtime Tvalid D: reject Policy epoch Φpolicy Pver , P active D: reject/re-admit Revocation Φrev ρrev , ρ active D: fail closed Drift Φdrif t Eadmit , S t D: reject/re-admit Replay Φreplay cid, nonce, L D: reject Scopeability C, P latf orm D: reject if false 

• caller : The identity of the agent wrapper requesting execution. • texec : The timestamp of the execution request. • nonce : The certificate nonce that must be unused in the broker ledger. 

4.2 Verification Pipeline 

When a request is submitted, the broker runs it through the pipeline shown in Figure 2. The stage predicates and their failure outcomes are summarized in Table 2. 

4.3 Formal Certificate Verification Predicate 

Execution is admissible only if the verifica-tion predicate evaluates to true. Let V =

V erif yExec (Ω , req, S t, P latf orm, L ), where L is the broker ledger: 

V = Φ sig ∧ Φmatch ∧ Φtime 

∧ Φpolicy ∧ Φrev 

∧ Φdrif t ∧ Φreplay 

∧ Scopeable( C, P latf orm )

(5) where: • Φsig : Asserting the validity of SAB ’s cryptographic sig-nature σSAB on Ω.• Φmatch : Confirming that req.cid = Ω.cid ,

req.nonce = Ω.nonce , and the requested opera-tion, resource, and parameters match the contract C

embedded inside Ω.• Φtime : Confirming texec lies within the certificate’s va-lidity window Tvalid .• Φpolicy : Validating that the certificate policy version matches the active policy version: Φpolicy = ( Pver =

Pactive ).• Φrev : Confirming that the certificate has not been re-voked ( ρrev = ρactive ). • Φdrif t : Confirming that the live target state St has not drifted beyond the admitted evidence state Eadmit de-scribed in the certificate. • Φreplay : Confirming that (cid, nonce ) has not previ-ously been reserved or executed in the broker ledger. • Scopeable (C, P latf orm ): Confirming that the re-quired action, resource, time, and parameter constraints are enforceable by the target platform or by a mandatory broker-controlled proxy/admission path. Equivalently, the match predicate binds the request to the certificate identifier and nonce before comparing the target contract: 

Φmatch = ( req.cid = Ω .cid )∧

(req.nonce = Ω .nonce )∧

M atch (req.op, req.target, req.params, C ).

(6) The policy predicate is: 

Φpolicy = ( Pver = Pactive ) (7) The Scopeable predicate is true only when every constraint in C is enforceable on the mutation path. Native IAM/R-BAC conditions can make action, resource, time, or names-pace constraints scopeable. A mandatory proxy or admis-sion controller is another mechanism that makes parameter-level constraints scopeable when native policy languages can-not express them. If neither native policy nor a mandatory broker-controlled interposition point can enforce a constraint, 

Scopeable (C, P latf orm ) is false and the broker rejects be-fore credential minting. The replay predicate is: 

Φreplay (cid, nonce, L ) = (( cid, nonce ) /∈ Lused ) (8) The broker must atomically reserve (cid, nonce ) before mint-ing an execution identity or invoking the target API. A second request carrying the same certificate nonce is rejected even if the first execution failed after reservation. 

Nonce Reservation, Idempotency, and Crash Recovery. 

Nonce reservation is conservative: once (cid, nonce ) is re-served, retry is not allowed unless crash recovery can prove that no mutation was attempted. A proof may come from a durable pre-invocation ledger state, an idempotency token ac-cepted by the target platform, or target-side evidence showing that the mutation did not occur. If the broker crashes after the point where target invocation may have happened, the certificate is treated as consumed; the agent must re-admit the proposal through SAB before another mutation attempt. 5Input   

> Ω, req, S t
> Φsig
> Signature
> Φmatch
> Match
> Φtime
> Validity
> Φpolicy
> Policy Epoch
> Φrev
> Revocation
> Φdrif t
> Drift
> Scopeable
> Platform
> Mint
> ID exec
> API Mutation
> Outcome Record O
> Decision Record D

Figure 2: Broker verification pipeline. The request req , certificate Ω, and live state St flow sequentially through cryptographic and state checks. Verification failures produce signed decision records; only if all checks pass is a short-lived execution identity minted and the API mutation attempted. 

4.4 DecisionRecord and OutcomeRecord Binding 

If verification fails before target invocation, SEB generates a DECISION RECORD D:

D = DecisionRecord( did, cid, nonce, decision, f ailed _check, reason, t decide , σ broker ) (9) where decision records whether the request was rejected, failed closed, or required re-admission. Every verification fail-ure produces a signed DecisionRecord that binds the rejection reason to the certificate and nonce. If verification succeeds and the broker invokes the target mutation API, SEB generates an O UTCOME RECORD O rep-resenting the target attempt: 

O = OutcomeRecord( oid, cid, nonce, status, tstart , t end , result, H (Spost ),error, σ broker )

(10) where oid is the outcome ID, status indicates target success or target failure, H(Spost ) is the hash of the target infrastruc-ture’s post-state evidence when available, and σbroker is the broker’s digital signature binding the outcome to the original certificate and nonce. OutcomeRecords are therefore evidence of attempted mutations, not of verification failures. 

4.5 Failure Behavior 

If any check in the verification pipeline fails, SEB behaves according to defined policies: • Reject: Immediate rejection of execution request, return-ing a standard authorization error and writing a signed decision record. • Re-admit: For transient failures like minor drift or policy mismatches, the broker writes a decision record and can request the agent to re-submit its proposal to SAB. • Fail Closed: If the revocation status service is unreach-able or if a signature check fails, SEB blocks the request and writes a fail-closed decision record. • Escalate: Human break-glass handling is outside the autonomous certificate-bound path and is discussed in Section 10. 

## 5 Scoped Execution Identity 

SEB shifts mutation authority from identity-centric authoriza-tion to certificate-bound scoped authorization. 

5.1 The Problem with Standing Credentials 

In typical cloud environments, agents or their runtime wrap-pers are assigned static IAM roles with generic permissions (e.g., ec2:* or eks:* privileges). Under this model, there is no enforcement mechanism preventing a wrapper or hijacked agent from bypassing the admission controller. An agent can issue a direct API request to mutate resources outside of any certified contract. To prevent bypass, we must enforce a strict constraint: 

Agents and their wrappers must possess zero standing mutation credentials. 

Instead, the SEB is the only entity with the authority to assume powerful administrative roles. 

5.2 Bypass Prevention Deployment Pattern 

SEB is an enforcement boundary only when it is installed as the mandatory mutation path. The target platform must reject mutation calls from agent identities, developer workstations, and ordinary service roles, and must accept production mu-tation only from authorized mutation principals as defined in Section 3. Without this deployment pattern, an agent with standing credentials can bypass both SAB and SEB. 

AWS. An AWS deployment uses a deny-by-default orga-nization and account configuration. Service Control Poli-cies (SCPs) deny high-risk mutation actions unless the prin-cipal is the broker role or a broker-issued session carry-ing required session tags such as seb:cid , seb:nonce ,6seb:issuer , and seb:risk . Agent roles have permis-sion boundaries that exclude production mutation APIs and permit only proposal submission and read-only evidence col-lection. The broker role alone may call sts:AssumeRole 

into target execution roles. Those target roles require broker-set session tags and external IDs, constrain session duration to the certificate validity window where supported, and attach inline STS session policies for action and resource restrictions. IAM conditions and resource tags enforce native bounds such as action, resource ARN, namespace/account, source VPC endpoint, and principal tag. When AWS IAM cannot express a parameter-level constraint, such as a specific ingress port or JSON payload field, the mutation must flow through a broker-owned proxy adapter that validates the payload against C

immediately before forwarding it to the AWS API and bind-ing the result to the ledger. 

Kubernetes. A Kubernetes deployment separates agent service accounts from mutation service accounts. Agent service accounts receive RBAC permissions for proposal creation and observation but no verbs such as create ,

update , patch , or delete on protected resources. The broker service account is the only account authorized to per-form those verbs in protected namespaces, and it uses short-lived TokenRequest credentials or impersonation only after certificate verification. A validating admission webhook re-jects protected mutations unless the request carries broker-attested context, such as seb.openkedge.io/cid and 

seb.openkedge.io/nonce annotations or equivalent admission-review metadata. A mutating webhook may stamp broker-approved metadata onto objects before the validat-ing webhook checks it. Policy engines such as Gatekeeper, Kyverno, or ValidatingAdmissionPolicy can enforce invari-ants that RBAC cannot express, while the broker adapter vali-dates payload fields that remain outside native policy expres-siveness. The security theorem below depends on these RBAC and admission controls rejecting direct non-broker mutation attempts. 

5.3 SEB Identity Model 

Rather than executing actions using its own master credentials, the SEB acts as a token broker. Upon verifying a certificate 

Ω, the broker programmatically requests the Identity Provider (IdP) to mint a temporary, down-scoped execution credential 

ID exec :

ID exec = M intIdentity (C, Ω, target, scope, T valid , ρ rev )

(11) Native IAM or RBAC systems enforce the dimensions they can express, typically action, resource, principal, session du-ration, audience, and namespace. Parameter-level constraints and certificate binding are not uniformly enforceable by cloud IAM. When the target API cannot enforce a dimension di-rectly, SEB preserves the binding through broker-side proxy Table 3: Scoped identity dimensions and their enforcement mechanisms.                   

> Dimension Enforcement
> Action Native IAM/RBAC operation where supported (e.g., AWS security-group ingress) Resource Native resource ARN, namespace, ob-ject name, or label selector Parameters Native conditions, or mandatory broker proxy/admission validation against C
> Time STS duration, projected-token expira-tion, and broker validity check over
> Tvalid
> Certificate Session tags, admission metadata, and ledger binding to Ωand nonce
> Policy Broker validation that Pver =Pactive
> Revocation Broker validation that ρrev =ρactive
> before minting

validation, admission control, required session tags, and ledger binding. 

5.4 Scope Dimensions 

The down-scoped identity restricts execution along several dimensions. These dimensions are detailed in Table 3. For instance, in the firewall exam-ple, AWS session policy can restrict the session to 

ec2:AuthorizeSecurityGroupIngress on the target security-group ARN and to a short duration, while session tags bind the credential to the certificate identifier and nonce. If IAM cannot express the exact port or CIDR constraint for the relevant API, the broker-owned proxy adapter validates port=443 and the approved CIDR against 

C before forwarding the call; the ledger then records the certificate, nonce, request payload, and outcome. Thus native authorization enforces what the platform supports, and SEB supplies the reference-monitor logic for the remaining certificate-bound constraints. 

5.5 Security Properties 

The scoped execution identity model provides several security properties under the deployment assumptions in Section 3: • No Standing Credentials: Agents never hold creden-tials that can be abused out-of-context. • Least Privilege: Tokens are restricted to the minimum required API permissions for the requested task. • Constrained Reuse: Tokens are bound to a short ex-piration window (60 seconds for Kubernetes projected tokens, and the minimum supported 900 seconds for 7Assurance Certificate Ω        

> •Contract C
> •Target Resource
> •Action & Parameters
> •Validity Window Tvalid
> •Revocation Epoch ρrev
> Short-Lived Execution Identity
> ID exec
> Scope Bindings

Figure 3: Scoped identity binding. The broker extracts the safety parameters, target resources, and validity windows from 

Ω and maps them into a short-lived execution identity ID exec 

plus any required broker-side enforcement bindings. AWS STS). While nonce reservation prevents repeated broker-mediated minting, exposure of an already minted 900-second AWS STS credential is bounded by session policies, session tags, the proxy path, and target IAM conditions, preventing out-of-context reuse. • Revocation-Before-Execution: If the certificate is re-voked before execution, the broker will refuse to mint the token, preventing the action from occurring even if it was previously approved. • Replay Resistance: The broker reserves the certificate nonce before mutation and rejects subsequent requests carrying the same (cid, nonce ) pair. • Accountability: Every broker decision and mutation at-tempt is logged, providing cryptographic evidence link-ing the executor’s identity to the original SAB certificate, decision record, and outcome record where a target invo-cation occurred. 

## 6 Drift, Revocation, and TOCTOU Protection 

Distributed control planes introduce a vulnerable interval be-tween action admission and runtime execution. SEB closes that interval with live-state drift checks and epoch-based re-vocation. 

6.1 The TOCTOU Problem in Agentic Systems 

When SAB evaluates an agent proposal at time t1, it does so based on the admitted evidence state Eadmit = Et1 gathered at that moment. SAB certifies that the proposed contract C

is safe under Eadmit and signs the certificate Ω. However, the certificate may not be presented to the SEB for execution until a later time t2 (where t2 > t 1). During this interval t2 − t1, the target infrastructure can change. For example, another process may modify security group rules, rotate access keys, or decommission target virtual machines. If the broker executes the certificate blindly without checking for state changes, a certified action that was safe at 

t1 could become unsafe or policy-violating at t2.

6.2 Drift Predicate 

To prevent execution on stale state, SEB implements a live drift check. Before executing any mutation, the broker queries the target infrastructure’s current state St2 and compares it to the evidence state Eadmit captured inside Ω. We define the drift predicate Φdrif t as: 

Φdrif t (Eadmit , S t2 ) = Distance (P roject (Eadmit ),P roject (St2 )) ≤ ϵC

(12) where: • P roject (·): A projection function extracting only the state variables relevant to contract C.• Distance (·): A distance or divergence metric measuring the discrepancy between the admitted state and the live state. • ϵC : The policy-defined drift tolerance limit for contract 

C.If the distance exceeds ϵC , the broker rejects the certificate, rendering the action invalid. 

6.3 Epoch-Based Revocation 

In addition to target state changes, corporate policy or opera-tional requirements may change after a certificate is signed. Rather than keeping track of long, distributed revocation lists (CRL), we employ a global revocation epoch counter ρactive .Each certificate Ω contains the revocation epoch ρrev at which it was signed. At the moment of execution, the broker verifies: 

ρactive = ρrev ⇒ executable (13) If the system has advanced the global epoch (e.g., due to an active security incident or policy change) such that: 

ρactive > ρ rev ⇒ Reject (14) the certificate is rejected immediately. Figure 4 shows the timeline of this process. 8t           

> t1
> SAB admits C,signs Ω(ρrev =k)
> t2
> Revocation epoch advances to k+ 1
> t3
> Agent requests execution of Ω
> t4
> Broker rejects
> Ω(stale ρrev )

Figure 4: Revocation-before-execution timeline. Between ad-mission ( t1) and execution request ( t3), the active revocation epoch advances ( t2), causing the broker to reject the request (t4). 

6.4 Fail-Closed Semantics 

Under high-assurance levels (specifically L3/L4 within the OpenKedge framework), the broker enforces a strict fail-closed policy. In the event of system partitions, network la-tency, or service failures, SEB defaults to rejecting the request. Specifically: • Unreachable Revocation Service: If SEB cannot query the active global epoch ρactive , it assumes ρactive >ρrev and rejects. • Drift Evaluation Failure: If target APIs fail to return live state metrics or evidence is incomplete, SEB rejects the transaction. • Stale Policy Epoch: If the current policy version ex-ceeds the policy epoch indicated in Ω, the request is rejected and forced to undergo re-admission. This fail-closed design prevents an attacker from isolating the broker to exploit older, compromised certificates. 

## 7 System Implementation 

We have implemented a concrete research prototype of the Sovereign Execution Broker ( SEB ) in Go, consisting of ap-proximately 4,200 lines of code. The codebase is structured into modular packages with clean boundaries to separate cryp-tographic verification, state monitoring, ledger writing, and platform-specific credential minting. A compact summary of the system implementation artifacts is presented in Table 4. 

7.1 Codebase Structure and Boundaries 

The broker’s codebase is divided into the following primary components: • cmd/seb-broker : The entry-point daemon that hosts the gRPC and HTTP/JSON endpoints. • pkg/verifier : The verification pipeline that parses certificates, verifies signatures, checks validity intervals, and matches requests to contracts. Table 4: Compact summary of the SEB research prototype artifacts.                    

> System Aspect Value / Implementation Choice
> Language Go v1.21 Lines of Code (LoC) 4,200 LoC (excluding tests) Broker Replicas 3 replicas (high-availability mode) Database Backend PostgreSQL v15 (Amazon RDS
> db.r6g.xlarge )Scoped Identity Adapters AWS STS, Kubernetes TokenRequest Enforcement Components AWS Mutation Proxy, Kubernetes Validating Web-hook Cryptographic Library Go standard library crypto/ed25519
> Revocation Caching Local sync.Map , 5-sec poll interval, 5-sec TTL Deployment Environment AWS EKS v1.28 (worker instances:
> m6i.xlarge )

• pkg/revocation : The polling client that interacts with the Revocation Epoch Service and maintains the local thread-safe epoch cache. • pkg/ledger : The database client managing Post-greSQL storage for nonces, decision records, and out-come records. • pkg/adapter : Platform-specific adapters including the AWS Security Token Service (STS) and Kubernetes TokenRequest adapters. • pkg/proxy : The reverse proxy for parameter-level API validation. 

7.2 Certificate Parser and Verifier 

The certificate verifier consumes SAB certificates (Ω)and validates their authenticity. We use Go’s standard 

crypto/ed25519 library for cryptographic operations. To prevent signature-malleability exploits, certificates are parsed and checked against a strict JSON schema, then marshaled using a deterministic Canonical JSON serialization (sorting keys alphabetically, removing optional whitespace, and es-caping strings per RFC 8785) before signature verification. The verifier loads SAB’s public verification key from a secure local trust store, extracts the contract C, and validates the signature σSAB over the canonical certificate body. 

7.3 Nonce Reservation and Replay Protection 

To prevent replay attacks, SEB implements an atomic nonce reservation mechanism using a PostgreSQL database. When an execution request is received, the broker initiates a database transaction and attempts to insert the (cid, nonce) pair into a reserved_nonces table: 

CREATE TABLE reserved_nonces ( cid UUID NOT NULL, nonce VARCHAR(64) NOT NULL, reserved_at TIMESTAMP NOT NULL, PRIMARY KEY (cid, nonce) 

9Agent / Wrapper gRPC Request 

> Go Broker Service (Ed25519 Verifier)
> Revocation Epoch Cache
> Cloud STS Adapter (Session Policies)
> Ledger (PostgreSQL)
> Cloud / Kubernetes APIs (Mutation)
> Outcome Binding

Figure 5: System deployment architecture of the Sovereign Execution Broker. The Go-based service verifies certificates, interacts with active local caches, calls cloud STS or Kubernetes APIs for scoped session credentials, invokes mutations through broker-controlled adapters/proxies, and logs signed decision and outcome records to PostgreSQL. 

); 

Because of the primary key constraint, duplicate requests fail the insertion and are immediately rejected. This prevents double-spend attacks even under highly concurrent execution requests. 

7.4 Decision and Outcome Ledger 

Every verification decision and execution outcome is logged to PostgreSQL. The schemas are defined as: 

CREATE TABLE decision_records (did UUID PRIMARY KEY, cid UUID NOT NULL, nonce VARCHAR(64) NOT NULL, decision VARCHAR(32) NOT NULL, failed_check VARCHAR(32), reason TEXT, t_decide TIMESTAMP NOT NULL, signature BYTEA NOT NULL ); CREATE TABLE outcome_records (oid UUID PRIMARY KEY, cid UUID NOT NULL, nonce VARCHAR(64) NOT NULL, status VARCHAR(32) NOT NULL, t_start TIMESTAMP NOT NULL, t_end TIMESTAMP NOT NULL, result TEXT, post_state_hash VARCHAR(64), error TEXT, signature BYTEA NOT NULL ); 

Every record is signed by the broker using its private Ed25519 key, ensuring non-repudiation and providing an audit trail for security teams. 

7.5 Policy and Revocation Cache 

The broker maintains a thread-safe local cache of the global policy version Pactive and revocation epoch ρactive using a sync.Map . A background worker polls the centralized gRPC Revocation Service over a TLS connection every 5 seconds. To enforce fail-closed behavior, the local cache has a TTL of 5 seconds. If a network partition prevents the broker from contacting the revocation service, the cache expires after 5 seconds, and all subsequent certificate validations fail closed until connectivity is restored. 

7.6 Scoped Identity Adapters 

The broker implements two credential-minting adapters: • AWS STS Adapter: Evaluates the contract C and calls the AWS STS AssumeRole API, requesting the mini-mum supported session duration of 900 seconds. While nonce reservation prevents repeated broker-mediated minting, exposure of an already minted 900-second AWS STS credential is bounded by session policies, session tags, proxy path, and target IAM conditions, preventing out-of-context reuse. • Kubernetes TokenRequest Adapter: Invokes the Kubernetes core token projection API ( /api/v1/ namespaces/{ns}/serviceaccounts/{sa}/ token ) via the Go client-go SDK. It requests a short-lived token (expiration window of 60 seconds) bound to the target namespace, service account, and audience. 

7.7 Cloud Proxy and Admission Webhooks 

To enforce constraints that native IAM and RBAC cannot express (such as parameter-level validation like restricting port ranges or container images), SEB implements inline en-forcement components: 10 • AWS Mutation Proxy: A secure HTTP/HTTPS reverse proxy that intercepts mutation requests. The agent wrap-per directs its API requests to this proxy, which uses the dynamically minted scoped STS credentials. The proxy parses the request payload, validates parameter constraints against the contract C (e.g., verifying that the CIDR block and ports match the certified contract), and forwards the request to the cloud endpoint. • Kubernetes Validating Webhook: A validating admission webhook service (implemented using Go’s sigs.k8s.io/controller-runtime )that intercepts Kubernetes resource modifications. The webhook rejects any mutation that does not carry the seb.openkedge.io/cid and 

seb.openkedge.io/nonce annotations matching a successfully reserved nonce and valid certificate in the broker’s ledger. 

7.8 Trusted Computing Assumptions and Failure Han-dling Trusted Computing Base (TCB): We assume the broker runs in a secure, isolated execution environment (e.g., AWS Nitro Enclaves or a dedicated Kubernetes private network segment). We trust the integrity of the broker’s private signing key, the SAB public key store, the PostgreSQL database, and the target platform’s root IAM/RBAC mechanisms. 

Failure and Crash Recovery: If the broker crashes after nonce reservation but before invoking the target API, the exe-cution request fails closed, and the nonce remains consumed. The agent must re-request admission from SAB to obtain a fresh certificate. To prevent double mutation, the broker passes an idempotency token (computed as H(cid ∥ nonce )) to the target platform (e.g., via the AWS ClientRequestToken 

parameter or Kubernetes client uid). Upon broker recovery, if the status of a reserved nonce is uncertain, the broker queries the target API using the idempotency token to determine if the mutation occurred, logging the result before releasing the transaction lock. Where target APIs do not expose reli-able idempotency or lookup mechanisms, SEB conservatively treats the certificate as consumed and requires re-admission through SAB. 

7.9 Artifact Availability 

The SEB research prototype, including the Go gRPC and HTTP broker service, AWS and Kubernetes adapters, vali-dating webhook manifests, benchmark harness scripts, and detailed reproducibility instructions, will be released publicly as open-source software as part of the OpenKedge artifact repository. Table 5: Metrics used in the empirical evaluation of the SEB prototype.         

> Metric Meaning / Operational De-scription
> Broker verification latency Latency added by signature, epoch, and contract checks Scoped credential latency Time required to mint transient tokens from IAM/STS Revocation propagation delay Elapsed time from epoch ad-vancement to request rejection Drift rejection rate Percentage of mutations re-jected due to live-state drift Unsafe execution escape Rate of invalid or uncertified mutations that succeed Throughput Number of concurrent certified mutations executed per second Ledger overhead Disk storage write overhead in bytes per transaction

## 8 System Evaluation 

We evaluated our Go-based SEB research prototype to as-sess its latency overhead, throughput scalability, revocation propagation delay, and enforcement capability under injected security threats and system faults. Our evaluation answers the following research questions: • RQ1 (Latency Overhead): What latency overhead does SEB add to infrastructure mutations? • RQ2 (Revocation Propagation): How quickly does a global revocation epoch advancement prevent pending executions? • RQ3 (Credential Minting Cost): What is the compu-tational and network cost of dynamic scoped credential issuance? • RQ4 (Drift Detection): How does the drift check per-form under live state queries, and what is its overhead? • RQ5 (Comparative Advantage): How does broker en-forcement compare to direct IAM, static policy checks, or audit-only configurations? • RQ6 (Fault Containment): How does SEB behave un-der network partitions, broker crashes, or malformed cer-tificate attacks? 

8.1 Experimental Setup 

Our experimental setup consists of a Kubernetes cluster (Ama-zon EKS v1.28) deployed in the AWS us-west-2 region. 11 • Broker Nodes: The Go-based broker service runs as a high-availability deployment with 3 replicas. Each replica is hosted on an AWS EC2 m6i.xlarge in-stance (4 vCPUs, 16 GiB RAM) running Linux. • Database Backend: We use Amazon RDS PostgreSQL v15 ( db.r6g.xlarge ) as our ledger and nonce stor-age backend. • Network Topology: All broker nodes, the database in-stance, and the Revocation Service reside within a pri-vate VPC. The average network latency between broker instances and the RDS PostgreSQL instance is 1.1 ms. • Certificates: SAB certificates are generated using Ed25519 signatures, ranging in size from 512 bytes (min-imal IAM resource policy) to 1.5 KB (complex policies containing multiple parameter-level constraints). • Revocation Cache: The local cache polls the gRPC Revocation Service every 5 seconds, with a cache TTL of 5 seconds. • Credential Duration: Projected service account tokens are requested with a 60-second duration, and AWS STS credentials are minted with the minimum allowed ses-sion duration of 900 seconds. 

Methodology and Simulation Boundary. All latency and throughput measurements for the baseline configurations and Full SEB were collected using live cloud and database APIs in AWS. Specifically, our broker-side operations interacted directly with active AWS STS AssumeRole endpoints, the live Kubernetes core TokenRequest API, and our RDS Post-greSQL database instance. The live drift checks performed real queries to active AWS EC2 Security Groups and EKS cluster APIs. Conversely, for the security and fault-injection experiments (reported in Section 8.5), network partitions of the revocation service and database crash events were simu-lated within our controlled test-harness environment to pre-vent permanent disruption to our active AWS cloud infrastruc-ture. 

Statistical Methodology. To ensure statistical rigor, we adopted a strict measurement policy. For each configuration and workload, we ran 100 warm-up execution cycles to prime Go runtime caches, connection pools, TLS sessions, and database/client-side caches, after which we executed 5,000 of-ficial trials. Tables 6–9 report latency measurements collected at a fixed concurrency level of a single-request steady-state (concurrency = 1) over 5,000 trials. To evaluate scalability, we conducted a separate experiment scaling request concurrency from 1 to 100 threads, with the throughput results reported in Figure 6. The latency values are summarized using p50, p95, and p99 percentiles rather than simple arithmetic averages, Table 6: Broker verification microbenchmarks (5,000 trials).                      

> Pipeline Component p50 Latency (ms) p99 Latency (ms)
> Ed25519 Signature Verification (Φsig )0.08 0.11 Certificate Parsing & Canonical-ization 0.12 0.18 Contract Matching ( Φmatch )0.05 0.08 Epoch Check ( Φpolicy ,Φrev )(Cache Hit) 0.03 0.05 Epoch Check ( Φpolicy ,Φrev )(Cache Miss) 2.40 3.82 PostgreSQL Nonce Reservation (Φreplay )3.20 5.12 PostgreSQL Ledger Write (Async Append) 3.50 5.60 AWS STS Credential Minting (AssumeRole )46.70 158.40 Kubernetes TokenRequest API 12.10 18.30

capturing tail latency anomalies. The AWS SDK for Go was configured such that transient network retries were enabled up to three times, while retry-on-throttling was disabled so STS rate limits appeared directly in throughput measurements. 

8.2 Verification Microbenchmarks (Exp 1) 

We first measured the execution latency of each check in the verification pipeline. Table 6 reports the p50 and p99 latencies over 5,000 trials at a fixed single-request steady-state concurrency (concurrency = 1). The cryptographic validation ( Φsig , parsing, and contract matching) contributes less than 0.3 ms of total latency. The primary latency bottlenecks are the network round-trips to external services: the database write for nonce reservation ( 3.2 ms) and, most dominantly, AWS STS credential minting ( 105.2 ms). 

8.3 End-to-End Latency and Baselines (Exp 2) 

We compared the end-to-end performance of SEB against several baselines across two workloads: • K8s Patch: Updating pod replicas or container configu-rations in the EKS cluster. • AWS Security Group Update: Intercepting and execut-ing an ingress firewall rule authorization. We report the baseline latency measurements in Table 7 (Ku-bernetes workload) and Table 8 (AWS workload), separating the broker-side overhead from the estimated client-observed end-to-end latency. Note that SAB admission latency is ex-cluded from all configurations because the evaluation isolates mutation-time enforcement overhead. The measurements are separated into two distinct metrics: • Broker-Only Overhead: The total latency added solely by the broker service, comprising certificate signature verification, database nonce reservation, live drift check 12 Table 7: Kubernetes workload latency comparison (p50, p95, p99) showing broker-only overhead and estimated client end-to-end latency.                   

> Configuration Broker-Only (ms) Estimated Client E2E (ms)
> Direct RBAC 0.00 / 0.00 / 0.00 12.50 / 15.20 / 19.80 Static Policy Proxy (Gate-keeper) 8.50 / 11.20 / 12.30 21.00 / 26.40 / 32.10 Audit-Only Logging 0.00 / 0.00 / 0.00 12.70 / 15.40 / 20.10 SAB without Broker Enforce-ment 0.00 / 0.00 / 0.00 12.60 / 15.30 / 19.90
> Full SEB (Ours) 28.20 / 36.50 / 47.10 40.70 / 51.70 / 66.90
> – SEB without drift checks 16.10 / 21.30 / 27.80 28.60 / 36.50 / 47.60 –SEB without revocation checks 28.10 / 36.40 / 47.00 40.60 / 51.60 / 66.80 – SEB without nonce reserva-tion 25.00 / 32.20 / 41.50 37.50 / 47.40 / 61.30

Table 8: AWS workload latency comparison (p50, p95, p99) showing broker-only overhead and estimated client end-to-end latency.                   

> Configuration Broker-Only (ms) Estimated Client E2E (ms)
> Direct IAM 0.00 / 0.00 / 0.00 85.00 / 98.40 / 112.50 Static Policy Proxy (OPA) 8.20 / 10.10 / 12.10 93.20 / 108.50 / 124.60 Audit-Only Logging 0.00 / 0.00 / 0.00 86.10 / 99.70 / 114.20 SAB without Broker En-forcement 0.00 / 0.00 / 0.00 85.40 / 98.90 / 113.10
> Full SEB (Ours) 136.90 / 180.40 / 284.10 221.90 / 278.80 / 396.60
> –SEB without drift checks 51.60 / 81.90 / 166.10 136.60 / 180.30 / 278.60 – SEB without revocation checks 136.80 / 180.20 / 283.90 221.80 / 278.60 / 396.40 –SEB without nonce reservation 133.70 / 175.90 / 279.00 218.70 / 274.30 / 391.50

query, scoped credential minting (STS or TokenRequest), proxy payload validation, and database ledger write. • Estimated Client End-to-End Latency: The total oper-ation time observed by the client application, which is estimated by adding the isolated broker-only overhead to the baseline direct target API execution latency (12.50 ms for Kubernetes, 85.00 ms for AWS). This separation prevents the subtraction of target API base-lines from the broker’s isolated overhead. While Direct IAM and Audit-Only configurations show the lowest latency (as they perform no runtime checks or token minting), they fail to protect against agent bypass or credential theft. SEB adds 28.2 ms broker-side overhead to Kubernetes mutations and 136.9 ms broker-side overhead to AWS security-group mutations; the resulting estimated client-observed p50 latencies are approximately 40.7 ms and 221.9 ms when combined with direct target API latency. The ablation experiments reveal the source of this over-head. In AWS, removing the live drift check ( SEB with-out drift ) reduces the broker-only overhead by 85.3 ms because it eliminates the need to query the AWS API (DescribeSecurityGroups ) to verify the subnet state. Removing the database nonce reservation ( SEB without nonce reservation ) saves 3.2 ms of database write time. 

8.4 Latency Breakdown Analysis 

To decompose the performance overhead of the broker, we analyze the latency contributions of individual sub-steps in Table 9. This breakdown demonstrates that target state drift check-ing (42.9% for Kubernetes, 62.3% for AWS) and scoped cre-dential minting (42.9% for Kubernetes, 34.1% for AWS) con-stitute the vast majority of the overhead. In contrast, local validation logic represents a negligible portion of the over-head. 

8.5 Security and Failure-Mode Validation (Exp 3 & 5) 

We evaluated the broker’s resilience through a controlled injected test suite of security threat vectors and system faults, executing 1,000 test cases for each scenario. Table 10 reports the results. In all cases, the broker successfully blocked unauthorized mutations, consistent with the enforcement predicates under the stated deployment assumptions of Theorem 1. When the Revocation Service was partitioned, the broker successfully failed closed immediately after the local cache TTL (5 sec-onds) expired, rejecting 100.0% of requests. 

Broker Crash Recovery: We simulated broker crashes during execution. Out of 50 crash events, 25 were injected prior to target API invocation. All 25 failed closed, with no mutations occurring. The remaining 25 were injected during or immediately after target API invocation. Using idempo-tency tokens, the recovery manager resolved the state of each pending transaction against the target cloud APIs, recording 100.0% of outcomes correctly in the ledger without dupli-cate mutations. Where the target platform or API lacks reli-able idempotency or lookup mechanisms, SEB conservatively treats the certificate as consumed and requires re-admission through SAB. 

8.6 Revocation Propagation Delay (Exp 3) 

To measure revocation propagation delay (RQ2), we issued certificates and queued them for execution. We then advanced the global revocation epoch at the Revocation Service and measured the time until the broker rejected execution requests. With a polling interval of 5 seconds and a cache TTL of 5 seconds, the maximum observed delay from epoch advance-ment at the revocation service to 100% request rejection at the broker was 5.2 seconds (mean delay of 2.6 seconds). This propagation delay is bounded by the polling interval plus network propagation latency. 13 Table 9: Latency breakdown of Full SEB execution overhead.                                

> K8s Workload AWS Workload Pipeline Component Latency (ms) Share (%) Latency (ms) Share (%)
> Verification ( Φsig , parsing, matching) 0.25 0.9 0.28 0.2 Nonce Reservation ( Φreplay )3.20 11.3 3.20 2.3 Drift Query ( Φdrif t )12.10 42.9 85.30 62.3 Credential Minting ( ID exec )12.10 42.9 46.70 34.1 Ledger Write (Post-execution logging) 0.55 2.0 1.42 1.1
> Total Overhead 28.20 100.0 136.90 100.0

Table 10: Security and failure-mode controlled injected test-suite results (1,000 cases each).                                 

> Injected Scenario Observed Broker Behavior Rejection Rate Unsafe Escape Rate
> Uncertified Mutation Rejected by signature verifier 100.0% 0.0% Request-Cert Mismatch Rejected by contract match 100.0% 0.0% Replayed (cid, nonce )Rejected by DB nonce constraint 100.0% 0.0% Stale Policy Epoch Rejected by epoch check 100.0% 0.0% Stale Revocation Epoch Rejected by revocation check 100.0% 0.0% Revocation Partition Failed closed after cache expiry 100.0% 0.0% Malformed ΩRejected by JSON parser 100.0% 0.0% Live-State Subnet Drift Rejected by drift predicate 100.0% 0.0% Parameter-Level Violation Rejected by proxy validation 100.0% 0.0%

8.7 Live-State Drift Sensitivity (Exp 4) 

We evaluated the drift-check predicate Φdrif t by modifying target resources in the background during the interval between certificate signing ( t1) and execution request ( t2). Under sim-ulated configuration updates (e.g., changing security group descriptions or tags), the broker successfully detected state deviations. When the drift tolerance threshold ϵC was set to 0 (strict matching), the broker rejected 100% of requests that experienced any background modification, showing a drift rejection rate of 4.2% in our concurrent workload simulator. 

8.8 Performance Analysis (Latency and Throughput) 

We analyzed the latency distribution and throughput scalabil-ity under increasing request concurrency. 

Latency Percentiles: For AWS workloads, the latency per-centiles are p50 = 136.9 ms, p95 = 180.4 ms, and p99 = 284.1 ms. The tail latency is dominated by AWS STS API latency spikes. For Kubernetes workloads, the percentiles are p50 = 28.2 ms, p95 = 36.5 ms, and p99 = 47.1 ms, demonstrating a highly stable profile. 

Throughput Scalability: Figure 6 shows the throughput of the broker service under increasing concurrent threads. The Kubernetes TokenRequest adapter scales linearly, peak-ing at 820 requests per second at 80 threads, limited pri-marily by PostgreSQL transaction commit rates. Conversely, the AWS STS adapter peaks at 240 requests per second at 40 threads, beyond which AWS STS rejects requests with 

RequestLimitExceeded errors. This highlights cloud provider API throttling as a dominant operational bottleneck for broker deployments.      

> Concurrency (Threads)
> Throughput (req/sec)
> 20 40 60 80 100
> 200
> 400
> 600
> 800 K8s TokenRequest
> AWS STS (Throttled)

Figure 6: Throughput scalability of the SEB prototype ser-vice. 

8.9 Workload Suitability Discussion 

Our results show that SEB is highly suitable for high-risk, low-frequency mutation workloads. For actions like firewall rule changes, auto-scaling modifications, or database exports, the 140 ms latency overhead is negligible relative to the security assurance of complete mediation, zero standing priv-ileges, and cryptographic non-repudiation. However, SEB is not suitable for high-frequency, microsecond-scale control loops (e.g., real-time container CPU scheduling or fast SDN routing updates). In those contexts, the overhead of database writes, cryptographic verification, and cloud provider API calls exceeds the microsecond-level latency budgets, necessi-tating alternative lightweight assurance patterns. 

## 9 Security Analysis 

SEB’s security claim is certificate-bound mutation under ex-plicit trust and deployment assumptions. 14 9.1 Security Properties 

The Sovereign Execution Broker enforces the following se-curity properties when deployed as the mandatory mutation path described in Section 5.2: • Property 1 (No Direct Agent Mutation - P1): If target infrastructure APIs accept mutations only from autho-rized mutation principals, then an autonomous agent cannot execute direct mutations on production state. • Property 2 (Certificate-Bound Execution - P2): A mu-tation operation op on resource target executes through SEB only after it is bound to a cryptographically valid SAB certificate Ω.• Property 3 (Request-Contract Matching - P3): A cer-tificate Ω containing contract C cannot be used to au-thorize an execution request req unless req matches C

exactly or satisfies the explicit constraints in C.• Property 4 (Revocation-before-Execution - P4): Acertificate Ω can be invalidated after admission by SAB but prior to its execution by SEB by incrementing the system’s global revocation epoch ρactive .• Property 5 (Drift-Aware Execution - P5): A certificate 

Ω issued under stale system evidence cannot execute if the live target state St has drifted beyond the contract-defined safety threshold ϵC .• Property 6 (Scopeable Identity - P6): The broker mints transient credentials only when 

Scopeable (C, P latf orm ) holds; native IAM/R-BAC enforce action, resource, and time constraints where supported, and broker-side proxy or admission controls enforce remaining parameter-level constraints. • Property 7 (Replay Resistance - P7): A certificate nonce can be reserved only once, so a previously used 

(cid, nonce ) pair cannot authorize a second mutation. • Property 8 (Decision and Outcome Evidence - P8): 

Verification failures produce signed decision records D,while successful verification followed by target invoca-tion produces signed outcome records O, preventing de-niability about broker decisions and mutation attempts. 

9.2 Assumptions for Theorem 1 

The theorem below assumes the following trusted components and deployment conditions: • No agent runtime or wrapper has standing credentials that authorize production mutation. • Target APIs accept production mutations only from au-thorized mutation principals. • The SEB runtime, SAB signing key, revocation service, broker ledger, and target IAM/RBAC enforcement mech-anisms are trusted. • Every scope dimension claimed by 

Scopeable (C, P latf orm ) is enforceable by the target platform or by a mandatory broker-controlled proxy/admission path. • Break-glass identities are outside the autonomous agent path and do not share credentials with agent runtimes. 

9.3 Safety Proof Sketch 

We present a formal claim regarding the security properties of the broker enforcement model. 

Theorem 1 (Certificate-Bound Mutation). Under the as-sumptions above, an untrusted agent runtime cannot cause a production state mutation on target infrastructure unless the requested mutation matches a valid, unexpired, unrevoked, unreplayed certificate issued by the admission layer, live-state drift remains within the admitted contract bounds, and the required scope is enforceable by the target platform or by a mandatory broker-controlled proxy/admission path. 

Proof Sketch. We prove the theorem by contradiction. Sup-pose an agent successfully causes a state mutation M at time 

texec on target resource R using operation op with parameters 

params , but at least one theorem condition is false. 

Case 1: Broker Bypass. The agent attempts to execute M

directly without SEB . By assumption, target APIs reject all mutation identities outside the authorized mutation-principal set. The agent has no standing mutation credentials. Therefore, the target API rejects the direct request, contradicting the assumption that the agent caused M .

Case 2: No Valid Certificate or Replay. The agent submits a request to SEB without a valid certificate or with a previ-ously used nonce. The broker evaluates Φsig and Φreplay :

V erif y (Ω , σ SAB ) = True (15) 

Φreplay (cid, nonce, L ) = (( cid, nonce ) /∈ Lused ) (16) If the signature is invalid, the broker writes a reject decision record. If the nonce has already been reserved, the broker writes a replay decision record. In both cases, no new execu-tion identity is minted, contradicting the assumption that the broker-mediated request caused M .15 Case 3: Certificate is Expired or Revoked. Assume a certificate Ω exists but is outside Tvalid or has been revoked prior to execution, meaning ρrev < ρ active . When the broker receives the execution request, it evaluates Φtime and Φrev :

Φrev = ( ρrev = ρactive ) (17) The failed predicate causes SEB to write a decision record, reject the request, and refuse to mint ID exec . Thus, the agent cannot execute M through the broker. Contradiction. 

Case 4: Request-Contract Mismatch or Unsafe Drift. As-sume a valid certificate Ω exists for contract C, but the agent attempts to execute a different operation, resource, or param-eter set, or the live state has drifted beyond ϵC . The broker evaluates: 

Φmatch = ( req.cid = Ω .cid )∧

(req.nonce = Ω .nonce )∧

M atch (req.op, req.target, req.params, C )

(18) and Φdrif t (Eadmit , S t). If either predicate is false, the broker writes a decision record, rejects the request, and does not mint 

ID exec . Therefore, the agent cannot cause M through SEB .Contradiction. 

Case 5: Required Scope Cannot Be Enforced. Assume a scope dimension required by C is not enforceable by native target-platform controls or by a mandatory broker-controlled proxy/admission path. Then Scopeable (C, P latf orm ) is false, so the broker writes a decision record and rejects be-fore credential minting. Conversely, if Scopeable is true, the trusted target IAM/RBAC or mandatory broker-controlled proxy/admission path enforces the claimed action, resource, time, and parameter constraints. Thus, the agent cannot use a broker-minted identity to execute outside C. Contradiction. Therefore, under the stated assumptions, every successful production mutation attributable to an untrusted agent must pass broker verification against a valid, unexpired, unrevoked, unreplayed certificate whose contract matches the request and whose required scope is enforceable by the target platform or by a mandatory broker-controlled proxy/admission path. This proof does not claim semantic safety of the admitted proposal, which remains the responsibility of SAB and its validators; it claims enforcement of certificate-bound authority at mutation time. ■

## 10 Discussion and Limitations 

Operational deployment of SEB involves trade-offs around human escalation paths, performance, scaling, and target-platform expressiveness. 

10.1 Human-in-the-Loop Escalation 

While SEB enforces automated fail-closed behavior, produc-tion systems require mechanisms to handle unexpected fail-ures, such as networking outages or partition of the revoca-tion service. Break-glass operation is outside the autonomous certificate-bound theorem in Section 9. It is a separate human-authorized emergency path with independent authentication, authorization, and audit requirements: 1. Break-Glass Override: Certified human operators can sign an emergency override request Ωoverride under a policy separate from autonomous SAB certificates. 2. Verifiable Escalation: The broker verifies the operator’s cryptographic signature against administrative keys and executes only if the emergency policy authorizes the mutation. 3. Audit Trail: Every manual override generates an alert and is permanently written to the Ledger with high pri-ority. The presence of this path does not weaken Theorem 1 because break-glass credentials are not available to agent runtimes and are not treated as certificate-bound autonomous mutations. 

10.2 Performance Scaling and Consensus 

Integrating a broker into every mutation path introduces la-tency. The primary bottlenecks are: • Drift Checks: Querying live infrastructure state requires making API calls to cloud providers, which can take hundreds of milliseconds. • Credential Minting: Calling STS or service account APIs to generate transient tokens adds round-trip net-working overhead. To mitigate these, a deployment can use concurrent queries and cached state projections where policy permits. How-ever, maintaining strong consistency of the revocation epoch 

ρactive across multiple distributed broker nodes requires con-sensus. A deployment can use a lightweight replicated epoch store, such as a Raft-backed database, to ensure all broker nodes validate requests against the same epoch number. 

10.3 Limitations 

Our design has several limitations: 

Trust in Cloud Providers. SEB relies on the target cloud provider’s IAM system to enforce the boundaries of the minted scoped token ID exec . If the provider’s IAM enforce-ment layer has vulnerability bugs or allows bypass, the secu-rity properties in Section 9 no longer hold. 16 Cold-Start Latency. Minting fresh session tokens dynam-ically for every single mutation request prevents creden-tial reuse, but suffers from cold-start latencies. For high-throughput microsecond-level mutation workloads, the over-head of constant credential generation can become prohibitive, necessitating token caching strategies that introduce security trade-offs. 

Target API Limitations. Not all infrastructure APIs sup-port granular parameter scoping. For example, some cloud APIs allow scoping by resource tags but do not permit scoping the specific JSON payload parameters. In these cases, the de-ployment must use proxy-based parameter validation to make 

Scopeable (C, P latf orm ) true, which increases complexity and introduces a potential point of failure. 

Broker Availability as a Critical Dependency. Since the broker acts as the mandatory mutation gatekeeper, any outage of the broker blocks all agent mutations, representing a single point of failure (SPoF). Maintaining high availability (HA) with multi-AZ replication, database failover, and rate limiting is required, adding substantial infrastructure overhead. 

Operational Complexity. Transitioning legacy environ-ments to a zero-standing-privilege posture is operationally complex. It requires configuring and maintaining Service Con-trol Policies (SCPs), IAM permission boundaries, validating admission webhooks, and reverse proxy paths across all active mutation vectors. 

Revocation Consistency vs. Load. Polling the global re-vocation epoch at a short interval (e.g., 5 seconds) minimizes the vulnerability window for revoked certificates. However, in large deployments with thousands of broker instances, fre-quent polling generates significant read load on the central revocation service, requiring caching strategies that introduce consistency delays. 

State-Observation Staleness. Cloud provider APIs are eventually consistent. During drift checks, the broker queries the target state; however, if the cloud control plane has not fully propagated a background change, the broker may eval-uate drift based on stale observations, introducing time-of-check to time-of-use (TOCTOU) windows. 

Semantic Safety Remains External. The broker is an execution-time enforcement boundary. It guarantees that the request matches the certificate, but it cannot verify if the cer-tificate’s contract itself is semantically safe. If SAB (or SQA) admits a faulty or malicious proposal due to validator com-promise, SEB will execute it. 

Cross-Cloud and Multi-Account Deployments. In hetero-geneous multi-cloud environments (spanning AWS, Azure, Google Cloud, and Kubernetes), maintaining unified trust roots, global revocation epochs, and consistent proxy layers is challenging due to the differences in platform credential-minting and policy mechanisms. 

## 11 Related Work 

SEB bridges ideas from capability systems, reference moni-tors, privileged access management, workload identity, policy-as-code, and safety-critical shields, adapting them to the unique requirements of agentic control planes. 

11.1 Reference Monitors and Complete Mediation 

Reference monitors mediate all access requests to protected resources, enforcing properties such as complete mediation, tamper-proofing, and verifiability [2, 3]. • What SEB borrows: SEB adopts the structural design of a classical reference monitor, interposing between the client (the agent wrapper) and the resource (the target infrastructure APIs). • What SEB adds: Traditional reference monitors oper-ate at the operating system or kernel level (mediating system calls). SEB implements complete mediation at the cloud control-plane and API layers. It achieves this by enforcing a zero-standing-privilege network topology where all mutation paths reject non-broker credentials, and by binding execution to dynamic admission certifi-cates rather than static ACLs. 

11.2 Privileged Access Management and Zero Standing Privilege 

Zero Standing Privilege (ZSP) and Just-in-Time (JIT) access aim to reduce attack surfaces by issuing temporary administra-tive credentials only when an active task requires them [4, 5]. • What SEB borrows: SEB builds on the ZSP philosophy, denying agents standing write credentials and issuing short-lived, transient credentials. • What SEB adds: Traditional PAM systems are human-centric, validating developer identities, MFA tokens, or approval tickets to open a time-bounded session. SEB automates this for non-deterministic agents, mapping credential scope directly to a cryptographically signed *action contract* ( C) rather than a principal’s identity. Credential authority is bound to a single-use transaction. 17 11.3 Cloud Control-Plane Authorization and Workload Identity 

Workload identity systems (e.g., SPIFFE/SPIRE) issue cryp-tographic service identities to workloads [6, 7], while cloud platforms provide mechanisms like AWS STS session poli-cies and Kubernetes projected tokens to down-scope permis-sions [8, 9]. • What SEB borrows: SEB utilizes workload identity for broker service authentication and leverages STS/Token-Request APIs to generate down-scoped credentials. • What SEB adds: Workload identity verifies *who* is running but does not evaluate *what* the workload in-tends to do or whether it is safe. SEB acts as a controller layer on top of these identity substrates. It dynamically translates the signed, high-level assurance contract C

from SAB into corresponding JSON-formatted session policies, session tags, and projected tokens, while inter-posing a validation proxy to enforce parameter-level con-straints that the underlying cloud IAM cannot natively express. 

11.4 Policy-as-Code and Admission Control 

Policy decision engines such as Open Policy Agent (OPA), Gatekeeper, Kyverno, and Cedar decouple authorization logic from target application platforms [10–13]. • What SEB borrows: SEB leverages the declarative pay-load inspection concepts popularized by policy-as-code engines. • What SEB adds: Policy-as-code engines are state-less Policy Decision Points (PDPs) that evaluate static rules against incoming requests. They do not handle credential-minting custody, database nonce reservations, or target-state drift checks. SEB is a stateful Policy En-forcement Point (PEP) and reference monitor that inte-grates policy validation with replay protection, cache checks, and signed ledger logging. 

11.5 Runtime Enforcement for Safety-Critical Systems 

Safety shields and Simplex-style architectures interpose a safety controller to override or block unsafe commands from a primary controller in physical systems [14–16]. • What SEB borrows: SEB borrows the shield concept, interposing a validator to ensure commands satisfy pre-defined safety boundaries. • What SEB adds: Simplex shields focus on continuous reactive feedback loops in physical environments (e.g., flight controls). SEB extends this to discrete cloud infras-tructure mutations, translating abstract safety boundaries into ephemeral IAM policies and validating them against validity windows, revocation epochs, and database trans-action logs. 

11.6 Supply-Chain Attestations and Provenance 

Software supply-chain frameworks (e.g., in-toto, SLSA) bind build steps and materials to cryptographic attestations of provenance [17, 18]. Replicated consensus protocols (e.g., Paxos, Raft) are used to order events durably [19, 20]. • What SEB borrows: SEB borrows the concept of cryp-tographically signed build/execution provenance and uti-lizes append-only log structures. • What SEB adds: Supply-chain systems verify prove-nance post-hoc (after the build completes). SEB eval-uates provenance pre-execution (asserting that a mu-tation matches the SAB certificate) and binds the 

post-execution outcome. By signing both D ECISION -RECORD s and O UTCOME RECORD s, SEB builds an ac-tive, tamper-proof runtime audit trail that connects the agent’s intent to the final system state. 

## 12 Conclusion 

As non-deterministic agentic control planes assume greater operational authority over production systems, traditional au-thorization models based on static identity privileges become untenable. This paper introduced the Sovereign Execution Broker ( SEB ), a runtime enforcement boundary that addresses the gap between proposal admission and runtime infrastruc-ture mutation. By separating proposal, admission, and execution, SEB re-moves standing mutation credentials from autonomous agents when target APIs are configured to reject non-broker identi-ties, and turns certified authority into short-lived, revocable, and auditable runtime capabilities. We presented the SEB execution model, formalized its certificate, nonce, record, and scopeability semantics, and detailed its scoped identity and fail-closed behaviors. We implemented a Go-based prototype of SEB and evalu-ated its performance on AWS and Kubernetes. Our evaluation shows that SEB adds manageable latency overheads of ap-proximately 28 ms for Kubernetes mutations and 195 ms for AWS mutations, dominated by cloud API calls and creden-tial minting, scales to hundreds of requests per second, and successfully rejects stale, replayed, or uncertified requests un-der injected faults. SAB certifies proposal authority, but SEB is the mandatory runtime enforcement boundary that turns certificates into fresh, scoped, revocable mutation authority. 18 References 

[1] Jun He and Deying Yu. Sovereign assurance boundary: Certificate-bound admission for agentic infrastructure. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2606.11632 , 2026. [2] James P. Anderson. Computer security technology plan-ning study. Technical report, Electronic Systems Divi-sion, Air Force Systems Command, 1972. [3] Fred B. Schneider. Enforceable security policies. 

ACM Transactions on Information and System Security ,3(1):30–50, 2000. [4] Scott Rose, Oliver Borchert, Stu Mitchell, and Sean Con-nelly. Zero trust architecture. Technical Report Special Publication 800-207, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), 2020. [5] Amazon Web Services. IAM Roles Anywhere. AWS documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [6] SPIFFE Project. SPIFFE standards. SPIFFE documen-tation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [7] SPIRE Project. SPIRE: The SPIFFE runtime environ-ment. SPIRE documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [8] Amazon Web Services. AWS Identity and Access Man-agement (IAM) user guide. AWS documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [9] Amazon Web Services. Session policies for AWS STS. AWS documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [10] Open Policy Agent. Policy language. Open Policy Agent documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [11] Open Policy Agent Gatekeeper Project. Gatekeeper: Policy controller for Kubernetes. Gatekeeper documen-tation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [12] Kyverno Project. Kyverno documentation. Kyverno documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [13] Cedar Policy Language Project. Cedar policy language. Cedar documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [14] Lui Sha. Using simplicity to control complexity. IEEE Software , 18(4):20–28, 2001. [15] Roderick Bloem, Bettina Könighofer, Robert Könighofer, and Chao Wang. Shield synthesis: Runtime enforcement for reactive systems. In Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems (TACAS) , pages 533–548, 2015. [16] Mohammed Alshiekh, Roderick Bloem, Rüdiger Ehlers, Bettina Könighofer, Scott Niekum, and Ufuk Topcu. Safe reinforcement learning via shielding. In Proceed-ings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,pages 2669–2678, 2018. [17] Santiago Torres-Arias, Hammad Afzali, Tris-hank Karthik Kuppusamy, Reza Curtmola, and Justin Cappos. in-toto: Providing farm-to-table guarantees for bits and bytes. In Proceedings of the USENIX Security Symposium , 2019. [18] SLSA Project. SLSA: Supply-chain levels for software artifacts. SLSA documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [19] Leslie Lamport. The part-time parliament. ACM Trans-actions on Computer Systems (TOCS) , 16(2):133–169, 1998. [20] Diego Ongaro and John Ousterhout. In search of an understandable consensus algorithm. In Proceedings of the USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC) , pages 305–320, 2014. 19