Title: Analyzing Defensive Misdirection Against Model-Guided Automated Attacks on Agentic AI Systems

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.20470v1

Published Time: Fri, 19 Jun 2026 01:14:49 GMT

Number of Pages: 14

Markdown Content:
# Analyzing Defensive Misdirection Against Model-Guided Automated Attacks on Agentic AI Systems 

## Reza Soosahabi, Vivek Namsani Application & Threat Intelligence Research Center Keysight Technologies Inc., USA 

✦

Abstract —Agentic AI systems increasingly rely on language-model components to interpret instructions, process external data, invoke tools, and coordinate with other agents. These capabilities make prompt-injection and jailbreak attacks more consequential, especially as at-tackers adopt model-guided automation to scale probing, prompt refine-ment, and response evaluation. This work analyzes the resulting attack-defense setting through a probabilistic model of a target system, its defense mechanism, and the attacker’s automated judge. Our analysis shows that conventional detect-and-block defenses can allow attacker success rate (ASR) to approach one as the query budget grows, since predictable refusals provide useful feedback to automated search. We then examine detect-and-misdirect, where detected malicious interac-tions receive controlled, non-operational responses designed to induce false-positive errors in the attacker’s judge. This strategy reduces the positive predictive value of attacker-selected candidates and yields a bounded asymptotic ASR. We evaluate a proof-of-concept realization of this strategy through Contextual Misdirection via Progressive En-gagement (CMPE), a lightweight conversational misdirection method designed to replace predictable refusal text with safe but strategically misleading responses in automated jailbreak settings. On jailbreak benchmarks, CMPE reduces estimated ASR upper bounds by up to two orders of magnitude and nearly eliminates verified attack success in end-to-end PAIR and GPTFuzz attack runs. 

Index Terms —Large language models, agentic AI security, jailbreak attacks, prompt injection, automated red teaming. 

## 1 INTRODUCTION 

Generative AI systems are increasingly deployed in agentic environments, where they can autonomously interact with external tools, retrieve untrusted content, and communi-cate with other agents. This expands the attack surface for jailbreak and prompt-injection attempts, especially when attackers can leverage automation to probe a target system and refine prompts over multiple interactions. While recent alignment methods improve resistance to isolated attempts, emerging model-guided automated attack frameworks use AI/ML models to generate and evaluate candidate prompts at scale, significantly amplifying attack efficiency [1]–[3]. A key characteristic of these attacks is the use of an automated judge component to evaluate the target model responses 

Corresponding author: Reza Soosahabi (reza.soosahabi@keysight.com). 

Fig. 1: Example of contextual misdirection response generated by CMPE method in Algorithm 2 against an automated jailbreak request. 

and provide feedback information for prompt refinement. In parallel, most deployed defenses rely on detection-based mechanisms followed by blocking or refusal, where ma-licious inputs or outputs are identified and suppressed through filtering or policy enforcement [4], [5]. Although effective against isolated attempts, such defenses produce structured and predictable outputs that can be exploited by attackers in automated search processes. Modern model-guided attacks can use this feedback to iteratively improve prompts, either through optimization-based procedures in white-box settings [1] or via fuzzing-style heuristics in black-box settings [2], [3], [6]. In both cases, the defense response itself becomes part of the attack intelligence. In Section 2, we explore a fundamental limitation of detect-and-block defenses against model-guided automated at-tacks, arising from this feedback structure. We formalize the attack loop using a probabilistic framework that models the interaction between the target system, including the defense mechanism, and the attacker’s judge. Within this 1

> arXiv:2606.20470v1 [cs.CR] 18 Jun 2026 Fig. 2: Model-guided attacks & the detect-and-block defense strategy

framework, we evaluate the attacker success rate (ASR) under a constrained verification setting and show that, under a broad class of search processes, the attacker suc-cess probability against such defenses can approach one as the attacker increases its query budget. These findings are consistent with recent results demonstrating the existence of alignment failures that can be discovered through repeated querying [7]. To address this limitation, we shift our focus from further improving detection accuracy to degrading the attacker’s feedback quality. In Section 3, we propose a complemen-tary defense strategy termed detect-and-misdirect . Instead of returning predictable refusal responses after detecting malicious behavior, the defense mechanism can produce in-context but misleading responses designed to interfere with the attacker’s evaluation process. The key intuition is that model-guided attacks rely on the ability of auto-mated judges to reliably distinguish successful adversarial outputs from failures. By introducing semantically plausible but non-operational responses that appear successful to the attacker’s judge, the defender can degrade the attacker’s positive predictive value and diminish the efficiency of iterative search. Section 3 also formalizes this effect by intro-ducing misdirection-induced false-positives in the attacker’s evaluation process and shows that this leads to a bounded ASR even as the number of attack iterations grows. At a practical level, we instantiate this strategy through a lightweight conversational mechanism called Contextual Misdirection via Progressive Engagement (CMPE) , described in Section 4. CMPE replaces predictable jailbreak refusal text with responses that combine positive-intent framing, safe contextual expansion, and follow-up engagement. While related to techniques studied in computational persuasion [8], the objective here is not to influence human users, but to disrupt automated adversarial evaluation. This distinction is critical, as CMPE leverages known limitations of LLM-based judges, which often rely on heuristic cues such as tone and structure rather than strict semantic correctness [9]. We evaluate the proposed strategy in two complemen-tary ways. Section 5 is dedicated to estimating judge error rates using malicious and CMPE-generated misdirection re-sponses over jailbreak benchmarks, and uses these estimates to compute ASR bounds across simulated attacker-defender judge configurations. These results show that CMPE in-creases attacker-side false-positive rates and reduces esti-mated maximum ASR by up to two orders of magnitude compared with the detect-and-block baseline. More impor-tantly, Section 6 evaluates CMPE in end-to-end attack runs against PAIR [3] and GPTFuzz [2], [10], where a vulnerable victim model is protected by a content-moderation model. In these experiments, CMPE substantially reduces verified attack success and can cause automated attack frameworks to terminate prematurely on misdirection responses. Section 7 situates this work relative to recent active-defense approaches. Section 8 concludes the paper by dis-cussing deployment implications and future directions for integrating misdirection into agentic security architectures. Overall, the paper contributes a probabilistic analysis of model-guided attack dynamics, a detect-and-misdirect de-fense strategy that bounds attacker success by degrading automated evaluation, and a practical CMPE instantiation validated through both judge-based ASR simulations and end-to-end attack-framework experiments. These results support a defense perspective in which limiting the quality of attacker feedback can be as important as blocking mali-cious outputs in autonomous AI systems. 

## 2 ANALYSIS OF MODEL -GUIDED ATTACK DYNAM -

> ICS

There has been significant progress in securing generative AI models against prompt injection attacks as they are increasingly deployed in agentic applications with greater autonomy. Defenses have been integrated both into the models themselves and into external security layers that monitor agent interactions. Models with reasoning capa-bilities such as chain-of-thought (CoT) mechanism have adopted strategies such as deliberative alignment (DA) that prevent user-induced deviations from system instructions or safety policies [11]. There are also structured query methods such as StruQ [12] for securing models by explicitly sep-arating trusted instructions from untrusted data at the in-terface level, preventing prompt-injected instructions from being interpreted as executable commands. These mecha-nisms explicitly enforce prioritization between trusted sys-tem instructions and untrusted external inputs, making direct prompt overrides and input semantic manipulations substantially less effective. Thus, many emerging attack techniques involve multiple interactions with the model to probe and bypass defense mechanisms at deeper layers [4], [13], which are time-prohibitive without some level of automation. This has motivated model-guided automated attack frameworks where AI/ML models are used to accel-erate the evaluation of the sheer number of victim model responses and the generation of adversarial prompts with minimal human supervision. Figure 2 depicts the components involved in a model-guided attack scenario: victim model, defense system, and attacker. The defense mechanism can be the reinforced behavior of the victim model, or a designated AI firewall system enforcing security policies on the victim system. Many current defense mechanisms follow a detect-and-block 

strategy, where suspected malicious inputs are identified and handled through refusal messages, filtering, or interac-tion termination. They often scan for malicious patterns in both inbound and outbound content and explicitly react to 2them which makes their method of action known to external entities. The attacker is also equipped with models to evaluate (judge) the reaction of the victim system to attack prompts, whose outputs serve as feedback information to the attack prompt generation mechanism. The algorithm 1 illustrates a common workflow of model-guided attacks analyzed in this work. In each generation cycle, a set of N prompts are created by a model or an algorithm based on a heuristic template, and then tested against the victim model, whose responses are evaluated by a judge model in the form of a score or a distance from the desired response. Prompts with high judge scores are placed in a candidate set. Then the attacker may manually verify up to K, often a small number, of prompt-response pairs in the candidate set at the end of each cycle to avoid false-positives and ensure their potency and reproducibility, which is a time-consuming task. Since exhaustive verification of all N responses is impractical, the judge model plays a pivotal role in curating effective attack prompt candidates for verification and in guiding updates to the attack algorithm in the next cycle. Early attack frameworks such as GCG (greedy coordi-nate gradient) [1] worked on accessible or locally deployed victim models based on the premise that their discovered attack prompts can be transferable to similarly deployed models in real applications, or be used to construct heuris-tics in black-box frameworks [14]. They typically operate with a single generation cycle where the prompt creation process follows optimization algorithms incorporating eval-uation results from previous prompts and their responses, and the judging mechanism is more primitive, based on detecting refusal patterns in the generated responses. Start-ing with a refusal response, the optimization algorithm modifies tokens in the attack prompt with the goal of sup-pressing victim’s refusal behavior over iterations. In such methods, the optimization gradients are derived directly from the victim model, e.g., token-level likelihood. Most models generate relatively predictable refusal texts when encountering jailbreak request against their safety policies. There is ongoing research on refusal behavior detection and analysis in models [15], [16], which can also be leveraged by attackers to improve refusal-based judge components in these types of model-guided attacks, as well as to identify and fingerprint victim models in real-world applications [17]. As models grow in sophistication and are integrated into applications beyond chatbots, model-guided attack frame-works for black-box settings have evolved alongside them to directly interact with various target applications. This requires more sophisticated judges in the attack loop [3], similar to those employed in AI firewalls, to evaluate victim responses within application context and generate malicious prompts using model-guided heuristics rather than purely optimization-based methods. Unlike optimization-based at-tacks, these frameworks rely on iterative prompt refine-ment driven by attacker models. They enable more flexible exploration of the attack space without requiring internal model access and can infiltrate agentic AI ecosystems. The workflow in Algorithm 1 also covers this type of model-guided attacks, which are designed similarly to well-known software fuzzing frameworks, as reflected in names such 

Algorithm 1 Generic Model-Guided Attack Workflow 

Require: victim model V with defense mechanism function 

FD ; attacker judge model JA; verifier H; generations G;attempts N ; verification budget K; initial template set S0

Ensure: verified set D 

> 1:

D ← ∅  

> 2:

S ← S 0 

> 3:

for g = 1 to G do  

> 4:

CNg ← ∅ ▷ candidate prompt set  

> 5:

for i = 1 to N do  

> 6:

pi ← CREATE PROMPT (S, CNg ) 

> 7:

ri ← FD (V (pi)) ▷ filtered response  

> 8:

si ← JA(pi, r i) ▷ effectiveness score  

> 9:

if si ≥ τg then add (pi, r i, s i) to CNg 

> 10:

end for  

> 11:

DKg ← SELECT CANDIDATES (CNg , K ) ▷ e.g., top-K 

> 12:

DKg ← VERIFY (H, DKg ) ▷ (optional for g < G ) 

> 13:

D ← D ∪ D Kg 

> 14:

S ← UPDATE TEMPLATE (S, CNg , D) 

> 15:

end for  

> 16:

return D

as GPTFuzz and PromptFuzz [2], [10], [18], [19]. In these frameworks, the model-generated prompts in each cycle are tested against the victim application, and the resulting responses are evaluated by the judge model within the cycle. Prompt-response pairs meeting the judge criteria of interest (no refusal, and potentially malicious behavior) are optionally verified and used to update the prompt creation heuristic and improve the success rate of the next generation cycle. The prompt selection criteria based on the prompt-response judge score, represented by τg in Algorithm 1, can change dynamically per cycle in some frameworks. During the early cycles probing for an effective attack heuristic, the attack prompts are expected to achieve marginal judge scores on the responses they evoke from the victim model. Focusing on the inner cycle of the model-guided attack workflow in Algorithm 1, we consider a constrained ver-ification setting where the attacker’s success depends on having at least a verifiable effective candidate, i.e. DKg̸ = ∅,per generation cycle g. Our goal is to derive reasonable bounds on attacker’s success rate (ASR) in each cycle with respect to the detection performance of the defense system and the attacker’s judge in the context of probabilistic binary hypothesis testing. To analyze the effect of the defense system in either model-integrated or external form, we treat V (pi) as the unfiltered response that the victim model would produce for an attack prompt pi. The defense mechanism function 

FD then processes this response before it is delivered to the attacker. If the response is judged harmless, FD passes it through; otherwise, under the detect-and-block strategy, it replaces the response with a clear refusal or deflection message. As illustrated in Figure 2, we consider the prob-abilities of the following complementary events concerning the victim model’s response in our subsequent derivations:            

> Victim’s Response V(pi)Harmless Harmful True Nature ( T)T0T1
> Defense Judgment ( D)D0D1
> Attacker Judgment ( A)A0A1

3Let q ≜ P r (T1) be the apriori (latent) probability of generating a harmful response from the underlying victim model, which is an unobserved constant quantity during the attack cycle. The performance of each detector is defined in terms of its type-I: false-positive (FP) (α) and type-II: false-negative (FN) (β) error probabilities as follows: 

αD ≜ P (D1|T0) , β D ≜ P (D0|T1) (1) 

αA ≜ P (A1|T0) , β A ≜ P (A0|T1) (2) where αD , β D denote the defense system error probabilities and αA, β A denote the attacker’s judge error probabilities. Although both the attacker and the defense system aim to reduce these quantities, there is often an inherent trade-off between the type-I and type-II error probabilities. In par-ticular, the defense system may operate under a Neyman-Pearson style criterion, where the false-positive rate αD

is constrained below a tolerable threshold while maximiz-ing detection performance, since rejecting non-harmful re-sponses is a costly error. Lastly, we consider the common logical case that the attacker judge functions independently from defense systems, for a given response of a known nature. In other words, the attacker has no means of causally influencing the decision of defense system about an already generated response, 

(A ⊥⊥ D) | T ⇔ P (A, D |T ) = P (A|T ) P (D|T ) (3) We now evaluate the probability of event A1, meaning that a received response is selected by the attacker’s judge model in Algorithm 1 as a successful candidate. We start by partitioning the event space using the complementary defense events D0 and D1:

P (A1) = P (A1, D 0) + P (A1, D 1) (4) Here we assume the common refusal or deflection responses from the current detect-and-block defense strategy are prop-erly detected as undesired by the attacker’s judge model, i.e. 

P (A1, D 1) = 0 . (5) We can further expand the expression in (4) with respect to conditional probabilities about the true nature of the response ( T ) as follows: 

P (A1) = 

> 1

X

> i=0

P (A1, D 0 | Ti) P (Ti) (6) Then we end up with the following expression using the independence condition in (3) and the notations in (1): 

P (A1) = qβ D (1 − βA) + (1 − q)(1 − αD )αA (7) According to the workflow in Algorithm 1, an attacker’s ultimate success depends on discovering true-positive at-tack prompts with verifiable effects. Given verification bud-get K, the attacker can optionally verify positive candidates selected in each cycle to avoid false-positive error propaga-tion, or postpone verification until the last cycle. Irrespective of the verification schedule, we consider a cycle successful if it results in at least one verified true-positive attack prompt candidate. Hence, we use the following expression for the ASR per generation cycle. This can also serve as an upper-bound success criterion for frameworks such as [6], [20], where more than one true-positive candidate may be needed to properly update templates for future attack cycles. 

ASR ≜ P (DKg̸ = ∅) = 1 − P (DKg = ∅) (8) We can then expand the probability term in (8) with respect to the possible sizes of the candidate set, |C Ng |, using the total probability rule: 

ASR = 1 −

> N

X

> n=0

P (DKg = ∅ , |C Ng | = n) (9) Since having an empty candidate set implies having no verified candidates, we can further adjust the range in the sum above to 

ASR = P (CNg̸ = ∅) −

> N

X

> n=1

P (DKg = ∅ , |C Ng | = n) (10) The attack workflow in Algorithm 1 permits progres-sive prompt generation that incorporates decision history about previous prompts. This may correlate judge deci-sions within the same cycle, so the attempts need not be i.i.d. However, once a candidate set is formed, the verification step evaluates selected prompt-response pairs independently and according to their true nature. We model the per-candidate verification success probability by ηA, the 

positive-predictive value (PPV) of the attacker’s judge, which is computed from the judge error probabilities using Bayes’ theorem: 

ηA ≜ P (T1|A1) (11) 

= P (A1 | T1) P (T1)

P (A1)= P (A1, D 0 | T1) P (T1)

P (A1)= qβ D (1 − βA)

qβ D (1 − βA) + (1 − q)(1 − αD )αA

=



1 + 1 − qq

1 − αD

βD

αA

1 − βA

−1

Given the maximum verification budget K, we end up with the following for the sum terms in (10) 

P (DKg = ∅ , |C Ng | = n) = P (|C Ng | = n)(1 − ηA)min( n,K ).

(12) We then use the following inequalities 

(1 − ηA)K ≤ (1 − ηA)min( n,K ) ≤ (1 − ηA) (13) to substitute the sum terms in (10) for n ∈ [1 , N ] and deliver the following closed-form bounds on ASR: 

ASR ≤ P (CNg̸ = ∅)(1 − (1 − ηA)K )ASR ≥ P (CNg̸ = ∅)(1 − (1 − ηA)) (14) The remaining term is P (CNg̸ = ∅), the probability that at least one judge-positive candidate is selected in the cycle. The i.i.d. prompt generation case is sufficient for this term to approach one as N grows, but it is not necessary. It can approach one as long as the search process remains 4non-degenerate, meaning that the conditional probability of discovering a judge-positive candidate does not vanish as the attacker continues searching. This type of condition is standard in random-search convergence analyses [21] and is discussed in Appendix A. This particularly applies to intermediate attack cycles with more relaxed selection criteria (lower τg ) or the frameworks that continue the attempts until such candidate is found [1], [6]. Under this less restrictive condition, 

lim   

> N→∞

P (CNg̸ = ∅) = 1 . (15) The familiar expression 1 − (1 − P (A1)) N is recovered as the homogeneous i.i.d. special case. To derive the worst-case bound on ASR from the de-fense perspective, we evaluate the high-potency prompt regime q = 1 , corresponding to prompts that would trigger harmful responses from the underlying model whenever they are not blocked by the defense. This choice is justi-fied by the positive-predictive value term in (11): for fixed judge error rates, increasing the prior probability of truly harmful responses increases the probability that a judge-positive candidate is a true positive. Therefore, the verifica-tion component of the ASR bound is maximized at q = 1 ,where ηA = 1 . This is a reasonable choice for worst-case attack prompts that can trigger harmful responses from the underlying model in the absence of any defense system. In this worst-case scenario, the automated judge in the cycle only needs to reliably detect refusals from the target model, which is achievable given the predictable refusal behavior of many current models. Combining ηA = 1 with (15) yields 

max  

> q

(ASR) = P (CNg̸ = ∅) (16) Under the homogeneous i.i.d. approximation, this large-N

behavior can be written in the familiar closed form 

max  

> q

(ASR) ≈ 1 − (1 − βD (1 − βA)) N . (17) Thus, given βD (1 − βA) > 0, the attacker can increase its worst-case ASR arbitrarily close to 1 by increasing the number of model-guided attempts per cycle N .

Remark 1 (Incompleteness of Defense Strategies ). Consis-tent with studies such as [7], which show the theoretical existence of prompts bypassing model alignment, the above analysis implies that detect-and-block defense strategies are incomplete against model-guided attacks capable of automated search in prompt space. Under a non-degenerate search process, their success probability can approach 1 for a sufficiently large number of attempts N , pro-vided that the effective pass-through probability βD (1 − βA) > 0.

lim   

> N→∞

max  

> q

(ASR) = 1 . (18) 

## 3 ANALYSIS OF MISDIRECTION AS A DEFENSE 

Our proposed defense strategy, depicted in Figure 3, can be described as detect-and-misdirect , complementing current defense strategies against the rising threat of model-guided automated attacks in agentic ecosystems. Once it detects a pattern of iterative malicious prompts, the defense mech-anism can employ misdirection techniques to produce en-gaging in-context responses instead of clear and predictable 

> Fig. 3: Proposed detect-and-misdirect defense strategy against model-guided attacks

refusal messages. The misdirection responses aim to impose a new category of false-positive errors on the attacker’s au-tomated judge model, i.e. misdirection-induced false-positives (MI-FP) , whose probability γA is defined using the notations introduced in Section 2: 

γA ≜ P (A1|D1) (19) This implies that the condition in (5) no longer holds and 

P (A1) = γAP (D1) + 

> 1

X

> i=0

P (A1, D 0 | Ti) P (Ti) (20) increases compared to (6), where 

P (D1) = q(1 − βD ) + (1 − q)αD . (21) The misdirection responses are only generated for prompts deemed malicious by the defense system ( D1 event) and have a non-functional true nature for the attacker ( T0). Thus, it degrades the PPV of the candidate prompts discovered in the automated attack workflow in Algorithm 1 by increasing the denominator of its expressions in (11) while the numer-ator quantity remains intact. 

ηA = (22) 



1 + (1 − q)(1 − αD )αA

qβ D (1 − βA) + γA

q(1 − βD ) + (1 − q)αD

qβ D (1 − βA)

−1

Significant reduction in ηA defeats the purpose of model-guided iterative search, thus forcing the attacker to resort to exhaustive, and less practical, approaches to verify each prompt. Following the same defense-side worst-case regime 

q = 1 , we evaluate the quantities in (22) and (20) as follows: 

P (A1) = βD (1 − βA) + γA(1 − βD ) (23) 

ηA =



1 + γA(1 − βD )

βD (1 − βA)

−1

given q = 1 (24) These expressions can be inserted into the ASR upper-bound in (14) and then extended for large N according to (15) to obtain the general bound in (27). Nevertheless, we can derive the following tractable approximation for ASR under the homogeneous i.i.d. prompt generation condition 5with verification budget K = 1 which we can use for numerical evaluation: 

max  

> q

(ASR) K=1 = (25) 

βD (1 − βA) 

> N−1

X

> n=0

(βAβD + (1 − γA)(1 − βD )) n.

This can be used to derive the following tighter worst-case ASR bounds: 

βD (1 − βA) ≤ max  

> q

(ASR) K=1 <



1 + γA(1 − βD )

βD (1 − βA)

−1

,

(26) confirming that the proposed strategy prevents the ASR convergence to 1 shown in (18) for large numbers of au-tomated attempts N , provided that γA > 0.

Remark 2 (Misdirection Strategy Impact ). The following reduced upper-bound on the attacker success rate expresses the core strength of the detect-and-misdirect strategy against emerg-ing model-guided automated attack frameworks. Integrated with existing defense strategies, replacing predictable refusal messages with in-context misdirection can disrupt the feedback mechanism in such frameworks, forcing attackers to resort to less-practical search approaches with exhaustive and manual verification. These misdirection responses have minimal collateral impact, since they are only generated in response to threats detected by the existing defense mechanisms. 

lim   

> N→∞

max  

> q

(ASR) ≤ 1 −



1 + βD (1 − βA)

γA(1 − βD )

−K

(27) 

This bound is the consequence of a non-zero misdirection-induced false-positive rate γA, which prevents the asymptotic attack suc-cess probability from reaching unity. 

In a broader context, the proposed detect-and-misdirect strategy can be applied to mitigate other automated at-tacks, such as black-box fuzzing, in scenarios where the attacker’s evaluation feedback is subject to false-positive errors. For example, this technique may not be applicable in classic software security scenarios where the attackers can programmatically trigger and verify their desired re-sponses from their target (e.g. a key) without relying on semantic evaluators. In contrast, an agentic AI system can demonstrate the attacker’s desired malicious behavior in various forms that require the use of AI/ML evaluators, which are prone to false-positive errors. This distinction is central to model-guided attacks where detecting predictable refusal or deflection behavior is often easier than verify-ing whether an apparently cooperative response contains a functional malicious output. Misdirection complicates the attacker’s evaluation task by shifting it from detecting re-fusal to extracting functional information from responses. It can leverage known weaknesses of LLM-based evaluators, which may rely on superficial cues such as tone, structure, and perceived intent rather than strict semantic correctness [22], [23]. Attackers may seek to adapt existing model-guided frameworks against misdirection through costly means such as judge ensembling and extra calibration. However, these adaptations introduce their own trade-off: stricter judge rules can reduce the misdirection-induced false-positive rate γA, but they may also increase the attacker judge’s false-negative rate βA, causing the attack loop to discard genuinely harmful candidates. Appendix B quantifies this trade-off for simple majority-vote ensembles over the six judges used in our simulation. Furthermore, attackers still need to start the early cycles with more relaxed candidate selection criteria (e.g. lower τg in Algorithm 1) to identify weaknesses of the target system with respect to prompt templates that they can make more effective over the next cycles. Since they are more prone to accepting false positives (i.e. larger MI-FP rate γA) in early cycles, the effect of the detect-and-misdirect defense strategy extends beyond just the per-cycle ASR reduction and can divert subsequent attack cycles toward ineffective trajectories and resource exhaustion. Substantial reduction of γA in early cycles may require stricter automated evaluation or increased human verification, weakening the automation advantage of model-guided attacks. Recent studies further show that LLM-as-a-judge systems exhibit important reliability limitations even for advanced models and may still require expert grounding or human oversight in complex evaluation tasks [22], [24]. Consequently, while attackers may temper the effect of misdirection through stronger evaluators or ensembles, reli-ably filtering misdirection-induced false positives ultimately pushes model-guided attacks toward more costly human verification and exhaustive search. The techniques to deceive adversaries, often referred to as cyber deception, have been studied and applied in other fields of cybersecurity. However, they often involve the deployment of decoy artifacts such as honeytokens and honeypots to divert attacks or analyze them for offensive security research. Similarly, the proposed misdirection strat-egy can make apparent successes less trustworthy to the attacker, since they must spend additional resources distin-guishing true bypasses from controlled false engagements. This uncertainty may serve as both an operational and psychological deterrent against automated prompt injection and jailbreak attacks, consistent with prior observations that belief in deception mechanisms can deter adversarial behavior [25]. 

## 4 CONTEXTUAL MISDIRECTION VIA PROGRESSIVE 

## ENGAGEMENT AGAINST JAILBREAK ATTACKS 

To provide a proof of concept for the proposed detect-and-misdirect strategy, we present a conversational misdirection mechanism termed Contextual Misdirection via Progressive Engagement (CMPE) , which we evaluate against automated jailbreak attacks. The objective of the CMPE method is to substitute predictable refusal responses with responses that appear cooperative and semantically plausible, while subtly disrupting the attacker’s automated evaluation loop without violating the model’s policies. Illustrated in Algorithm 2, the CMPE method consists of three components. First, a positive-intent preamble establishes cooperative framing, which biases automated evaluators toward interpreting the response as desired by the at-tacker. Second, a context expansion stage reshapes the original prompt through token-level transformations (e.g., shuffling and lexical injection) and expands it into a coherent but 6non-operational narrative. This stage preserves semantic proximity to the original query while avoiding execution of the malicious intent. Third, a follow-up question introduces conversational branching to engage the attacker and obscure the evasive intent of the defense mechanism. Looking at the example in Figure 1, CMPE shares sim-ilarities with techniques studied in computational persua-sion, where responses are designed to influence beliefs in interacting parties [8]. However, when used as a defense mechanism, CMPE is designed to disrupt adversarial eval-uation mechanisms in automated jailbreak attacks by intro-ducing controlled misdirection. In particular, the generated responses exploit known limitations of LLM-based judges, which can rely on heuristic cues such as tone, structure, and perceived intent rather than strict semantic correctness [9]. The results in Section 5 demonstrate how CMPE can significantly increase misdirection-induced false positives in leading evaluation models and disrupt the automated jailbreak frameworks presented in [2], [3]. There in Ap-pendix C we show that CMPE is safer and more effective than instructing an abliterated (refusal-suppressed) model to generate misdirection responses. The CMPE method can also be used to create training datasets for integrating the detect-and-misdirect strategy as a learned technique in agentic security components. 

Algorithm 2 Example of misdirection strategy against jail-break attacks: Contextual Misdirection via Progressive Engagement (CMPE)                                                           

> Require: prompt p; lightweight model M; expansion budget
> Ne
> Ensure: misdirection response r=spre ∥sctx ∥q
> 1: (1) Positive-intent preamble
> 2: spre ←M(make positive intent preamble , p )▷1–2 sentences
> 3: (2) Safe context via prompt-reshaping
> 4: w←TOKENS (STRIP PUNCT (p))
> 5: w←INJECT GLUE (w)
> 6: w←SHUFFLE (w)
> 7: ˜p←JOIN (w)
> 8: sctx ←M(expand text ,˜p, N e)▷expand to ≈Newords
> 9: (3) Follow-up question
> 10: q←M(make detailed followup question , p )▷1–2 sentences
> 11: r←spre ∥sctx ∥q
> 12: return r

## 5 SIMULATION & N UMERICAL RESULTS 

In this section, we evaluate the efficacy of CMPE as an example of the detect-and-misdirect strategy for increas-ing misdirection-induced false-positive rates in automated judge models used by jailbreak attack frameworks. We then estimate its impact on maximum ASR in a simulated set-ting involving judge models used on both the defense and attacker sides, where the attacker performs homogeneous i.i.d. trials over benchmark malicious requests. We first estimate the baseline maximum ASR for the detect-and-block scenario in Figure 2, where a defense-side judge decides whether a victim response should be passed through or replaced with a blocking response. We then estimate the reduction in maximum ASR for the detect-and-misdirect scenario in Figure 3, where the same defense decision triggers a CMPE-style misdirection response in-stead of a predictable refusal. This allows us to study the effect of different combinations of judge models on the ASR bounds derived in Section 3, without restricting the analysis to models explicitly designed as AI firewalls. 

5.1 Jailbreak Prompts Dataset 

We evaluate our framework using a subset of 500 high-risk jailbreak prompts drawn from the AdvBench dataset 

introduced in [1]. These prompts represent a diverse set of illicit and harmful intent queries commonly used as seed prompts in red-teaming aligned language models. The dataset is publicly available 1 and has been adopted in sev-eral jailbreak benchmarks and attack evaluations, including PAIR, AutoDAN, and JailbreakBench [3], [6], [26]. 

5.2 Response Generation Model 

We use the NeuralDaredevil-8B-abliterated model 2, alightweight refusal-suppressed model based on the Meta LLaMA-3 architecture, as the response generation engine for two purposes: 

5.2.1 Malicious response generation 

For each jailbreak prompt in the AdvBench dataset, we generate an explicitly malicious response conforming to the original request to estimate false-negative errors of judge models. These responses are easy to verify manually and therefore provide a conservative estimate of judge false-negative rates, since real attack frameworks often use ob-fuscation, role-play, persuasion, or other tactics that can make harmful responses more nuanced and harder to detect and verify. To ensure sample quality, we apply a polling procedure with human oversight: each response is evalu-ated five times across six judge models in Section 5.3, with scores normalized and averaged per judge. We retained 453 samples that achieved an average normalized score above 0.75 on at least four out of six judges. The remaining 47 samples were then manually modified and retested to meet this criterion. 

5.2.2 Misdirection generation 

Since aligned models typically refuse to generate misleading content, we use the same model to construct misdirection responses. Specifically, to generate 500 CMPE responses, one for each prompt according to Algorithm 2, we use this model to produce positive-intent preambles (line no. 2), context expansion (line no. 8 with Ne = 200 words), and follow-up questions (line no. 10). 

5.3 Judge Models 

We use a diverse set of modern automated judge mod-els and omit simple keyword-based refusal detectors (e.g., used in early GCG work), since CMPE intentionally avoids predictable refusal wording which renders such detectors 

> 1https://github.com/llm-attacks/llm-attacks
> 2https://huggingface.co/mlabonne/NeuralDaredevil-8B-abliterated

7ineffective. We use the term judge broadly to denote models that score or classify response harmfulness or compliance with a malicious request.  

> •

Rubric-based LLM Judges: StrongREJECT (SR) [27] and 

PAIR [3] are instruction-based LLM judges that score whether a response satisfies the malicious user request. SR produces scores in [0 , 5] , while PAIR produces scores in [1 , 10] reflecting response compliance and harmful-ness.  

> •

Classifier Judges: HB-FT-LLaMA2-13B (HarmBench Fine-Tuned) [28], GPTFuzz-RoBERTa [2], [10], and 

Llama-Guard-3-8B [29] are classifier-style judges used to detect harmful content or unsafe prompt-response behavior. GPTFuzz-RoBERTa also produces confidence scores p ∈ [0 , 1] , which we incorporate into normalized harmfulness scores. All local models were deployed on a pair of NVIDIA DGX Spark™ systems, with defense-side and attack-side models hosted separately. 3 For the rubric-based LLM judges, we used GPT-OSS-120B and LLaMA-4-Scout-17B as backend models for the judge instructions. 

> Fig. 4: Per-judge normalized harmfulness score distributions for simulated jailbreak response samples.

5.4 Estimating Judge Error Rates 

We evaluate each of the 500 jailbreak prompts together with its simulated malicious response generated as described in Section 5.2 across all judge models. To account for stochastic variability in judge outputs, each prompt-response pair is evaluated 10 times per judge, resulting in 5000 raw scores or binary decisions per judge model. The distribution of these scores is shown in Fig. 4. For each judge, the outputs are normalized to the [0 , 1] range based on the output scale de-scribed in Section 5.3, with larger values indicating stronger judgment of harmfulness or compliance with the malicious request. We then repeat the same procedure using the same prompts paired with their corresponding misdirection re-sponses generated via the CMPE method in Section 5.2, yielding another set of 5000 harmfulness scores per judge. The resulting distributions are shown in Figure 5. These 

> 3Each NVIDIA DGX Spark™ system is equipped with a GB10 Grace Blackwell™ superchip and 128 GB of coherent memory.
> Fig. 5: Per-judge normalized harmfulness score distributions for CMPE misdirection response samples.

results illustrate that CMPE responses, while semantically safe, consistently receive high harmfulness scores across judges for a large fraction of jailbreak prompts. For each judge and response, we average the 10 nor-malized outputs to obtain a judge-positive probability proxy. For simulated jailbreak responses, the complement of this value estimates the per-sample false-negative (FN) rate of the defender, i.e., harmful responses that are not blocked. For CMPE responses, the same value estimates the misdirection-induced false-positive (MI-FP) rate on the attacker judge. Table 1 reports the per-judge average value of these quantities across all 500 samples. 

5.5 ASR Evaluation & Comparison 

Using the per-sample judge error estimates from Section 5.4, we compute a simulated maximum ASR upper bound for each attacker-defender judge pair under the homogeneous i.i.d. special case of our analysis. For each of the 500 jailbreak prompts, we compute a per-sample ASR bound using the corresponding per-sample estimates of βD , βA according to (25) and, when applicable, γA. We then average the resulting ASR values across all prompts. Therefore, the ASR values in Tables 2 and 3 are not obtained by directly substituting the aggregate error rates in Table 1; the aggregate rates are reported only to summarize judge behavior. Table 2 reports the detect-and-block baseline for N =100 attacker attempts and verification budget K = 1 , where misdirection is absent and γA = 0. Table 3 reports the corresponding CMPE-based detect-and-misdirect case using the estimated misdirection-induced false-positive rates. The baseline results show high simulated ASR upper bounds across many attacker-defender configurations, with several values approaching 1. In contrast, CMPE substantially re-duces the estimated ASR upper bound across the same configurations, often by one to two orders of magnitude. This reduction is driven by the increase in misdirection-induced false-positive rates γA, which lowers the attacker’s positive predictive value (PPV) and degrades automated candidate selection. These simulation results illustrate the mechanism predicted in Section 3: detect-and-block permits high ASR under repeated attempts, whereas detect-and-8Estimated Ave. Error SR-OSS-120B SR-Scout-30B PAIR-OSS-120B HB-FT-LLaMA2-13B LLaMA-Guard-3-8B GPTFuzz-RoBERTa                                                                                                               

> ˆβ(FN) 0.011 0.085 0.023 0.054 0.069 0.206 ˆγA(MI-FP) 0.627 0.738 0.852 0.428 0.980 0.715
> TABLE 1: Estimated average judge error rates across all 500 samples. These aggregate rates summarize judge behavior; the ASR tables are computed from per-sample error estimates and then averaged.
> Defender ↓/ Attacker →SR-OSS-120B SR-Scout-30B PAIR-OSS-120B HB-FT-LLaMA2-13B LLaMA-Guard-3-8B GPTFuzz-RoBERTa SR-OSS-120B 0.413 0.525 0.540 0.476 0.446 0.520
> SR-Scout-30B 1.000 0.974 1.000 1.000 0.999 0.998
> PAIR-OSS-120B 0.869 0.864 0.604 0.756 0.562 0.786
> HB-FT-LLaMA2-13B 0.994 0.993 0.990 0.149 0.990 0.951
> LLaMA-Guard-3-8B 0.999 0.997 0.996 0.998 0.001 0.947
> TABLE 2: Sample-averaged simulated ASR upper bound under the detect-and-block strategy for N= 100 homogeneous i.i.d. attack attempts with K= 1 . For each prompt, ASR is computed using per-sample judge error estimates with γA= 0 , and the table reports the average across all
> 500 prompts.
> Defender ↓/ Attacker →SR-OSS-120B SR-Scout-30B PAIR-OSS-120B HB-FT-LLaMA2-13B LLaMA-Guard-3-8B GPTFuzz-RoBERTa SR-OSS-120B 0.004 0.005 0.005 0.007 0.003 0.005
> SR-Scout-30B 0.124 0.049 0.094 0.165 0.074 0.084
> PAIR-OSS-120B 0.028 0.023 0.007 0.025 0.005 0.017
> HB-FT-LLaMA2-13B 0.077 0.064 0.052 0.001 0.046 0.039
> LLaMA-Guard-3-8B 0.098 0.075 0.063 0.126 0.000 0.039
> TABLE 3: Sample-averaged simulated ASR upper bound under the CMPE-based detect-and-misdirect strategy for N= 100 homogeneous i.i.d. attack attempts with K= 1 . For each prompt, ASR is computed using per-sample judge error estimates including γA, and the table reports the average across all 500 prompts.

misdirect bounds attacker success by corrupting the judge-based selection process. 

## 6 EMPIRICAL EVALUATION AGAINST AUTOMATED 

## ATTACK FRAMEWORKS 

We conduct end-to-end adversarial evaluations using two representative model-guided attack frameworks: GPT-Fuzz [2], [10] and PAIR [3]. These experiments emulate an agentic security setting in which a vulnerable victim model is protected by a content-moderation defense model that either blocks detected harmful responses or replaces them with CMPE misdirection. The goal is to measure verified ASR when the full attack framework interacts with the defended victim system. 

6.1 Experimental Configuration 

Each attack framework was evaluated on 50 adversarial goals sampled from AdvBench [1], with prompt subsets independently sampled per framework and a maximum budget of 50 iterations per prompt. Two victim models were used: Vicuna-13b-v1.5, an aligned target used in prior evaluations of these frameworks, and NeuralDaredevil-8B-abliterated, a refusal-suppressed target that more readily complies with malicious requests. GPT-3.5-Turbo served as the attacker model for prompt generation, following the public artifacts of the evaluated frameworks. Attack success was judged by GPTFuzz-RoBERTa [10] for GPTFuzz runs and by the PAIR judge instruction [3] hosted on GPT-OSS-120B for PAIR runs. Local defense-side and attack-side components were hosted on separate NVIDIA DGX Spark systems. On the defense side, Llama-Guard-3-8B acted as the content-moderation judge, NeuralDaredevil-8B-abliterated was used only within the bounded CMPE reshaping pro-cedure, and Claude Sonnet 4.6 served as a secondary vali-dation judge. Together, the two victim models allow us to test the defense under both aligned and refusal-suppressed target settings. The detect-and-block strategy routes each victim re-sponse through Llama-Guard-3-8B; responses classified as harmful are replaced with a refusal message. The detect-and-misdirect strategy instead invokes the CMPE reshaping algorithm (Algorithm 2) to generate a misdirected response that appears responsive to the attacker’s query while con-taining no genuinely harmful content. 

6.2 Final Response Validation 

For every positive exit, we manually inspected the final prompt-response pair and used Claude Sonnet 4.6 as a secondary LLM judge to reduce validation bias. A response accepted by the attacker’s judge was counted as a true-positive only if it contained genuinely harmful and action-able content. Any accepted response that was safe, incoher-ent, or off-topic was counted as a false-positive. Each run ends either as a Positive Exit , where the attacker’s judge claims success, or a Negative Exit , where the framework terminates without a successful claim within the iteration budget. Among positive exits, MI-FP denotes controlled CMPE misdirection responses accepted as suc-cessful, FP denotes other safe or invalid responses incor-rectly accepted by the attacker judge, and TP denotes re-sponses confirmed as genuinely harmful by final validation. 9Victim Defense Total Positive Exits Negative Exits MI-FP FP TP ASR Avg. Iter. 

Vicuna LLaMA-Guard-3-8B 50 23 27 0 13 10 0.200 37.5 Vicuna LLaMA-Guard-3-8B + CMPE 50 48 2 44 4 0 0.000 6.8 Abliterated LLaMA-Guard-3-8B 50 22 28 0 12 10 0.200 34.0 Abliterated LLaMA-Guard-3-8B + CMPE 50 48 2 42 5 1 0.020 6.4 

> TABLE 4: GPTFuzz end-to-end results over 50 prompts with a maximum of 50 iterations per prompt. Positive and negative exits denote framework-reported termination outcomes. Misdirection FP denotes exits caused by CMPE responses accepted as successful by the attacker judge. ASR is computed as validated true positives (TP) divided by the total number of prompts.

Victim Defense Total Positive Exits Negative Exits MI-FP FP TP ASR Avg. Iter. 

Vicuna LLaMA-Guard-3-8B 50 8 42 0 3 5 0.100 45.4 Vicuna LLaMA-Guard-3-8B + CMPE 50 43 7 43 0 0 0.000 20.4 Abliterated LLaMA-Guard-3-8B 50 12 38 0 7 5 0.100 41.4 Abliterated LLaMA-Guard-3-8B + CMPE 50 47 3 47 0 0 0.000 15.8 

> TABLE 5: PAIR end-to-end results over 50 prompts with a maximum of 50 iterations per prompt. Positive and negative exits denote framework-reported termination outcomes. Misdirection FP denotes exits caused by CMPE responses accepted as successful by the attacker judge. ASR is computed as validated true positives (TP) divided by the total number of prompts.

Avg. Iter. is the mean number of iterations to termination over all 50 prompts. 

6.3 Results and Interpretation 

Tables 4 and 5 present the end-to-end results for GPTFuzz and PAIR, respectively. Under detect-and-block, GPTFuzz produced 23 and 22 positive exits on Vicuna and the abliterated model, respectively. Final validation confirmed 10/50 (20%) true positives in both cases, while 13 and 12 positive exits were false positives. The remaining 27–28 runs ended as negative exits, with average termination at 34.0– 37.5 iterations. PAIR was more conservative, producing 8 and 12 positive exits, of which 5/50 (10%) were validated true positives on both victim models, with 3 and 7 false positives and 38–42 negative exits at 41.4–45.4 iterations. Under detect-and-misdirect, GPTFuzz produced 48 pos-itive exits on both victim models. On Vicuna, 44/48 posi-tive exits were MI-FPs and the remaining 4 were ordinary false positives, yielding 0 validated true positives. On the abliterated model, 42/48 positive exits were MI-FPs, 5 were ordinary false positives, and only 1/50 (2%) was a validated true positive. Only 2 runs ended as negative exits in both cases, and termination occurred much earlier, at 6.4–6.8 iter-ations on average. For PAIR, detect-and-misdirect produced 43 and 47 positive exits on Vicuna and the abliterated model, respectively. All positive exits were MI-FPs, resulting in 0 validated true positives on both targets. The remaining 7 and 3 runs ended as negative exits, with average termina-tion at 15.8–20.4 iterations. These results show that misdirection converts many attacker-claimed successes into MI-FPs, causing the frame-works to terminate early on controlled non-harmful re-sponses rather than continuing the search for true jailbreaks. Compared with detect-and-block, CMPE reduces verified ASR from 20% to 0–2% for GPTFuzz and from 10% to 0% for PAIR, while also reducing the average iterations to termination by roughly 4–6× for GPTFuzz and about 

2× for PAIR. Thus, the reduced iteration count should not be interpreted as improved attack efficiency; it reflects premature termination caused by the attacker’s judge ac-cepting misdirection responses as successful. This supports the central mechanism of detect-and-misdirect: the attacker still observes apparent successes, but those successes no longer correspond to validated harmful outputs. 

## 7 RELATED WORK ON ACTIVE DEFENSES 

Recent studies have empirically explored active defenses that exploit the dependence of automated attackers on LLM interpretation and response evaluation. Mantis uses defensive prompt injection against LLM-driven cyberattack agents by planting crafted inputs into system responses, causing the attacker’s LLM agent to disrupt its own op-eration or, in active variants, compromise the attacker’s environment [30]. This line of work is related to our use of adversarial misdirection, but its target is a tool-using cyberattack agent rather than the automated response judge used by model-guided jailbreak frameworks. Another related public work, Proactive Defense Against LLM Jailbreak , introduces ProAct as a proactive defense framework for iterative jailbreak attacks [31], [32]. ProAct generates benign “spurious responses” that appear to sat-isfy harmful requests, causing iterative jailbreak methods to misinterpret the response as a successful jailbreak and terminate prematurely. Our work shares the high-level in-tuition that apparent success can be safer for the defender than predictable refusal, but differs in its analytical focus and security abstraction. Rather than treating misdirection primarily as an empirical proactive-defense mechanism, we formalize the attacker’s response evaluation process as the central point of failure, introduce misdirection-induced false-positives as an explicit attacker-side error term, and derive ASR bounds in terms of defense false-negatives, attacker judge false-negatives, verification bud-get, and misdirection-induced false-positive rate. This anal-ysis explains why detect-and-misdirect differs from simple refusal or termination: refusal provides a negative search 10 signal, while misdirection corrupts the attacker’s candidate selection by lowering the positive predictive value of its judge. We further quantify adaptive judge and ensemble trade-offs and evaluate CMPE using both sample-averaged ASR simulations and end-to-end PAIR/GPTFuzz experi-ments with validated TP, FP, and MI-FP outcomes. 

## 8 CONCLUDING DISCUSSION 

This paper studies the security dynamics of model-guided automated attacks against LLM-based agentic systems, with particular focus on the role of automated evaluators in scaling jailbreak and prompt-injection attempts. We showed that conventional detect-and-block defense strategies can still leave attackers with an asymptotic advantage when repeated automated attempts are available. The key rea-son is that blocking responses provide structured feedback that can be used by model-guided attack frameworks to refine candidate prompts. To address this limitation, we introduced a detect-and-misdirect defense strategy that de-grades the attacker’s automated evaluation process by intro-ducing controlled, non-operational responses that increase misdirection-induced false-positive errors. Our probabilistic analysis shows that this mechanism can bound the attacker success rate even as the query budget grows, including under more general non-degenerate search conditions be-yond homogeneous i.i.d. prompt generation. We further instantiated the idea through Contextual Misdirection via Progressive Engagement (CMPE) and showed, across multi-ple automated evaluators and end-to-end frameworks such as PAIR and GPTFuzz, that misdirection can substantially reduce verified attack success and induce false-positive ter-mination. 

8.1 Limitations 

The scope of this work leaves several important considera-tions for future analysis and deployment. The probabilistic derivation adopts a per-cycle analytical abstraction with a constrained verification budget. This abstraction is useful for exposing the per-cycle scaling behavior of model-guided attacks, but it does not fully model how misdirection prop-agates across multiple dependent attack cycles, where false-positive candidates can influence future prompt templates and attacker heuristics. In practice, this multi-cycle effect may strengthen the practical impact of misdirection, but it requires a more detailed sequential model of attacker adaptation. Our empirical evaluation focuses primarily on jailbreak-style benchmarks and well-known attack frameworks. Al-though the proposed mechanism is motivated by broader automated attacks in agentic AI systems, including prompt injection, further evaluation is needed in full tool-use and multi-agent environments. We also did not conduct a dedi-cated study of the collateral effects of misdirection on benign human users. The strategy may be particularly suitable for fully agentic environments where suspicious interactions can be handled without directly confusing a human user. In chatbot settings, however, the frequency and conditions under which misdirection should be triggered depend on the confidence and policy judgment of the defending sys-tem. Clear refusal messages may still be appropriate, and sometimes necessary, as warnings or policy explanations for benign users. 

8.2 Future Work 

Future work should study how detect-and-misdirect can be integrated into realistic defense architectures. In this paper, CMPE is implemented as a separate response-generation mechanism activated after malicious behavior is detected. A natural next step is to investigate whether misdirection can be incorporated into model-level safety tuning, security reinforcement, or AI firewall policies. However, directly teaching large general-purpose models when to misdirect may be difficult and could increase the risk of unintended hallucination or confusing responses. A more controlled deployment option is to use a separate lightweight model or policy module that generates either refusal or misdirec-tion responses depending on the confidence, context, and severity of the detected threat. An important direction is to study detect-and-misdirect defenses in richer agentic settings where the target sys-tem interacts with tools, memory, external documents, and other agents. Such environments create more complex at-tack surfaces, but also provide additional opportunities for controlled response shaping. Finally, future work should evaluate the effect of misdi-rection in human-facing security studies, such as controlled CTF-style experiments. Such studies could measure whether misdirection changes attacker behavior, confidence, and resource allocation in non-automated or semi-automated scenarios. This would also clarify the relationship between detect-and-misdirect and broader cyber deception mecha-nisms, including whether the belief that a target system may deploy misdirection has a deterrent effect similar to the deception effects observed in prior cybersecurity studies [25]. 

## APPENDIX ANON -D EGENERATE SEARCH CONDITION 

The limit in (15) does not require the prompt attempts inside a generation cycle to be independent and identically dis-tributed (i.i.d.). It only requires that the search process main-tains a non-vanishing conditional probability of producing a judge-positive candidate as attempts continue. This type of non-degeneracy condition is standard in random-search convergence analysis [21]. Let A1,i denote the event that the i-th attempt in genera-tion cycle g is selected as a candidate by the attacker’s judge, i.e., si ≥ τg in Algorithm 1. Let Cig denote the candidate set after the first i attempts in that cycle, with C0 

> g

= ∅. Suppose that before the first candidate is found, there exists some 

ϵ > 0 such that 

P (A1,i | C i−1 

> g

= ∅) ≥ ϵ (28) for all attempts i. Then the probability of producing no candidate after N attempts satisfies 

P (CNg = ∅) = 

> N

Y

> i=1

 1 − P (A1,i | C i−1 

> g

= ∅) (29) 

≤ (1 − ϵ)N . (30) 11 Therefore, 

lim   

> N→∞

P (CNg = ∅) = 0 , lim   

> N→∞

P (CNg̸ = ∅) = 1 . (31) This proves that the convergence in (15) holds under a less restrictive condition than i.i.d. prompt attempts. The homogeneous i.i.d. expression 1−(1 −P (A1)) N is recovered as a special case when each attempt has the same candidate-selection probability and attempts are independent. 

## APPENDIX BATTACKER ADAPTATION AND VERIFICATION -C OST 

## TRADE -O FFS 

An adaptive attacker may attempt to reduce the effect of misdirection by hardening its judge, increasing the decision threshold, or combining multiple judges. The asymptotic bound in (27) shows that the relevant trade-off is governed by 

UK (βD , γ A, β A) ≜ 1 −



1 + βD (1 − βA)

γA(1 − βD )

−K

. (32) For detect-and-block, the corresponding asymptotic value approaches 1 whenever βD (1 − βA) > 0. For detect-and-misdirect, any nonzero γA keeps this upper bound strictly below 1 for finite verification budget K. Thus, if an adap-tive attacker reduces γA, maintaining a small ASR bound requires either a sufficiently low defense false-negative rate 

βD or increased attacker-side verification. To evaluate the judge-ensembling option, we combine the six judge models from Section 5.3 using simple majority rules. For a normalized score threshold τg , analogous to the candidate-selection threshold in Algorithm 1, and majority requirement m, a response is accepted if at least m of the six judges produce a normalized score above τg . We estimate ˆγA

as the fraction of CMPE responses accepted by the ensemble, and ˆβA as the fraction of simulated malicious responses rejected by the ensemble. 

B.1 Conservative ASR Estimate 

Since the simulated malicious responses are direct, human-verifiable completions generated from AdvBench prompts, 

ˆβA should be interpreted as an attacker-favorable lower-bound estimate of the judge FN rate; obfuscated, role-play, or persuasion-based attack outputs may be harder to recognize and can increase βA in practice. Table 6 reports the resulting rates and the corresponding asymptotic ASR upper bounds for representative defense false-negative rates and verification budgets. The results show that judge ensembling can temper the effect of misdirection, but it does not remove the underlying trade-off. For example, increasing the majority requirement and score threshold reduces ˆγA from 0.71 to 0.08 , but also increases ˆβA from 0.03 to 0.18 . This means the attacker becomes less vulnerable to misdirection only by becoming less sensitive to genuinely harmful responses. Moreover, increasing the verification budget from K = 1 to K = 5 

can substantially raise the ASR bound, especially when βD

is not very small. In practice, preventing false-positive prop-agation or premature termination requires such verification to be performed within each attack cycle, not merely after the final output. Thus, even a small per-cycle budget such as 

K = 5 scales with the number of attack cycles and weakens the automation advantage that model-guided attacks rely on. 

## APPENDIX CCMPE A LTERNATIVES 

We have tested two other alternatives to generate misdi-rection responses for the prompts in the jailbreak dataset in Section 5.1: (1) directly prompting the abliterated model in Section 5.2 with instructions to generate persuasive, relevant misdirection responses, and (2) using a simplified version of CMPE without generating the follow-up ques-tion (i.e., skipping step no. 10 in Algorithm 2). The plot 

> Fig. 6: Comparing CMPE with alternative misdirection methods for jailbreak attack scenario using GPT-OSS-120B configured as a StrongREJECT LLM judge for model-guided attack.

in Figure 6 demonstrates the raw score (0-5) distribution for CMPE in comparison to these two alternative methods using GPT-OSS-120B configured as a StrongREJECT LLM judge according to the rubric in [27]. It shows that the abliterated misdirection responses achieve lower scores with higher variation. We have investigated some of the samples achieving high scores and they appear to be true harmful responses, which suggest this method is a risky approach to misdirection. The abliterated model sometimes ignores the intent of the instructions for safe misdirection and generates genuinely harmful responses, and when it complies with the instructions, the responses are often detected as irrelevant (scores ≤ 2) by the StrongREJECT LLM judge. This plot also highlights the effect of follow-up questions in misdirecting the LLM judge. While both variants remain safe and non-operational for attackers, there is a noticeable increase in the judge scores for CMPE responses compared to their counterparts without the follow-up question component. 

## REFERENCES                  

> [1] A. Zou, Z. Wang, N. Carlini, M. Nasr, J. Z. Kolter, and M. Fredrikson, “Universal and transferable adversarial attacks on aligned language models,” 2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.15043

12 Rule τg ˆγA ˆβA

βD = 5% 

K = 1 

βD = 1% 

K = 1 

βD = 5% 

K = 5 

βD = 1% 

K = 5 

≥ 3/6 0.7 0.71 0.03 0.067 0.014 0.293 0.066 

≥ 3/6 0.8 0.44 0.04 0.103 0.022 0.419 0.103 

≥ 3/6 0.9 0.31 0.08 0.135 0.029 0.516 0.137 

≥ 4/6 0.7 0.42 0.10 0.101 0.021 0.414 0.102 

≥ 4/6 0.8 0.16 0.12 0.225 0.053 0.720 0.237 

≥ 4/6 0.9 0.08 0.18 0.350 0.094 0.884 0.389 

TABLE 6: Judge-ensemble trade-off under majority voting over six judges. Stricter thresholds reduce the misdirection-induced false-positive rate 

ˆγA, but increase the attacker judge false-negative rate ˆβA. ASR columns report the asymptotic upper bound in (27) for representative defense false-negative rates βD and verification budgets K.[2] J. Yu, X. Lin, Z. Yu, and X. Xing, “LLM-Fuzzer: Scaling assessment of large language model jailbreaks,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) . Philadelphia, PA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2024, pp. 4657–4674. [3] P. Chao, A. Robey, E. Dobriban, H. Hassani, G. J. Pappas, and E. Wong, “Jailbreaking black box large language models in twenty queries,” in 2025 IEEE Conference on Secure and Trustworthy Machine Learning (SaTML) . Copenhagen, Denmark: IEEE, 2025, pp. 23–42. [4] Y. Liu, Y. Jia, R. Geng, J. Jia, and N. Z. Gong, “Formalizing and benchmarking prompt injection attacks and defenses,” in 33rd USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 24) . Philadelphia, PA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2024, pp. 1831–1847. [5] A. Wei, N. Haghtalab, and J. Steinhardt, “Jailbroken: How does LLM safety training fail?” in Advances in Neural Information Pro-cessing Systems , vol. 36, 2023, pp. 80 079–80 110. [6] X. Liu, N. Xu, M. Chen, and C. Xiao, “AutoDAN: Generating stealthy jailbreak prompts on aligned large language models,” in 

The 12th International Conference on Learning Representations , 2024. [7] J. Su, J. Kempe, and K. Ullrich, “Mission impossible: A statistical perspective on jailbreaking LLMs,” in Advances in Neural Informa-tion Processing Systems , vol. 37, 2024, pp. 38 267–38 306. [8] N. B. Bozdag et al. , “Must read: A comprehensive survey of computational persuasion,” ACM Computing Surveys , Mar. 2026. [9] L. Zheng et al. , “Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-Bench and Chatbot Arena,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-tems , vol. 36, 2023, pp. 46 595–46 623, datasets and Benchmarks Track. [10] J. Yu, X. Lin, Z. Yu, and X. Xing, “Gptfuzzer: Red teaming large language models with auto-generated jailbreak prompts,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.10253 [11] M. Y. Guan et al. , “Deliberative alignment: Reasoning enables safer language models,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https: //arxiv.org/abs/2412.16339 [12] S. Chen, J. Piet, C. Sitawarin, and D. Wagner, “StruQ: Defending against prompt injection with structured queries,” in 34th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 25) . Seattle, WA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2025, pp. 2383–2400. [13] C. Anil et al. , “Many-shot jailbreaking,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 37, 2024, pp. 129 696–129 742. [14] Q. Li, X. Yang, W. Zuo, and Y. Guo, “Deciphering the chaos: Enhancing jailbreak attacks via adversarial prompt translation,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.11317 [15] T. Xie et al. , “SORRY-Bench: Systematically evaluating large lan-guage model safety refusal,” in The Thirteenth International Confer-ence on Learning Representations , 2025. [16] J.-C. Noirot Ferrand, Y. Beugin, E. Pauley, R. Sheatsley, and P. McDaniel, “Targeting alignment: Extracting safety classifiers of aligned LLMs,” in 2026 IEEE Conference on Secure and Trustwor-thy Machine Learning (SaTML) , Munich, Germany, 2026, accepted paper. [17] D. Pasquini, E. M. Kornaropoulos, and G. Ateniese, “LLMmap: Fingerprinting for large language models,” in 34th USENIX Se-curity Symposium (USENIX Security 25) . Seattle, WA: USENIX Association, Aug. 2025, pp. 299–318. [18] J. Yu, Y. Shao, H. Miao, J. Shi, and X. Xing, “PROMPTFUZZ: Harnessing fuzzing techniques for robust testing of prompt injection in LLMs,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/ abs/2409.14729 [19] Z. Sun et al. , ““To Survive, I Must Defect”: Jailbreaking LLMs via the game-theory scenarios,” 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2511.16278 [20] A. Mehrotra, M. Zampetakis, P. Kassianik, B. Nelson, H. An-derson, Y. Singer, and A. Karbasi, “Tree of attacks: Jailbreaking black-box llms automatically,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems (NeurIPS) , 2024. [21] F. J. Solis and R. J.-B. Wets, “Minimization by random search techniques,” Mathematics of Operations Research , vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 19–30, 1981. [22] G. H. Chen et al. , “Humans or LLMs as the judge? a study on judgement bias,” in Proceedings of the 2024 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing , 2024, pp. 8301–8327. [23] P. Wang et al. , “Large language models are not fair evaluators,” in Proceedings of the 62nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics , 2024, pp. 9440–9450. [24] A. Szymanski, N. Ziems, H. A. Eicher-Miller, T. J.-J. Li, M. Jiang, and R. A. Metoyer, “Limitations of the LLM-as-a-judge approach for evaluating LLM outputs in expert knowledge tasks,” in Pro-ceedings of the 30th ACM Conference on Intelligent User Interfaces .Association for Computing Machinery, 2025. [25] K. J. Ferguson-Walter, M. M. Major, C. K. Johnson, and D. H. Muh-leman, “Examining the efficacy of decoy-based and psychological cyber deception,” in 30th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 21) . USENIX Association, Aug. 2021, pp. 1127–1144. [26] P. Chao, E. Debenedetti, A. Robey, M. Andriushchenko, F. Croce, V. Sehwag, E. Dobriban, N. Flammarion, G. J. Pappas, F. Tram` er, H. Hassani, and E. Wong, “Jailbreakbench: An open robustness benchmark for jailbreaking large language models,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 37, 2024. [27] A. Souly et al. , “A StrongREJECT for empty jailbreaks,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , vol. 37, 2024, pp. 125 416– 125 440, datasets and Benchmarks Track. [28] M. Mazeika et al. , “HarmBench: A standardized evaluation frame-work for automated red teaming and robust refusal,” in Pro-ceedings of the 41st International Conference on Machine Learning ,ser. Proceedings of Machine Learning Research, R. Salakhutdi-nov, Z. Kolter, K. Heller, A. Weller, N. Oliver, J. Scarlett, and F. Berkenkamp, Eds., vol. 235. PMLR, 21–27 Jul 2024, pp. 35 181– 35 224. [29] Meta Llama, “Llama Guard 3-8B Model Card,” https://github.com/meta-llama/PurpleLlama/blob/main/ Llama-Guard3/8B/MODEL CARD.md, 2024, accessed: 2026-05-26. [30] D. Pasquini, E. M. Kornaropoulos, and G. Ateniese, “Hacking Back the AI-Hacker: Prompt injection as a defense against LLM-driven cyberattacks,” 2024. [Online]. Available: https: //arxiv.org/abs/2410.20911 [31] W. Zhao, J. Peng, D. Ben-Levi, Z. Yu, and J. Yang, “Proactive defense against LLM jailbreak,” 2025. [32] ——, “Jailbreaking jailbreaks: A proactive defense for LLMs,” https://openreview.net/forum?id=pq6rx9r6Aj, 2025, openReview submission record. 

## LLM U SAGE STATEMENT 

LLMs were used for language polishing and literature search during the preparation of this manuscript. Claude Code was also used to assist with implementation and 13 deployment of proof-of-concept evaluation scripts. All AI-assisted text modifications and generated code were re-viewed, refined, and validated by the authors. The theoreti-cal derivations, technical statements, concepts, experimental methodology, and conclusions presented in this paper are original work of the authors, who take full responsibility for the correctness, originality, and integrity of the document. 14