Title: Semantic Quorum Assurance: Collective Certification for Non-Deterministic AI Infrastructure

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.08021v1

Published Time: Tue, 09 Jun 2026 00:31:54 GMT

Number of Pages: 21

Markdown Content:
# Semantic Quorum Assurance: Collective Certification for Non-Deterministic AI Infrastructure 

# Jun He OpenKedge.io Deying Yu OpenKedge.io 

# Abstract 

As large language model (LLM) agents are integrated into autonomous cloud operations, distributed systems face a se-mantic reliability problem: proposer agents can generate pro-duction mutations, such as modifying IAM policies, opening firewall security groups, or executing data exports, that are syntactically valid and statically authorized but operationally unsafe. Classical distributed consensus protocols replicate deterministic state transitions but do not evaluate the safety of the proposed intent. To address this gap, we introduce Semantic Quorum Assurance (SQA), a control-plane prim-itive for governing non-deterministic agentic infrastructure. SQA represents proposals as declarative execution contracts bound to cryptographic evidence chains and routes them to a diverse panel of read-only, sandboxed validator agents. SQA aggregates their judgments under a risk-adaptive quo-rum predicate that enforces model and archetype diversity, adjusts weights based on calibrated assurance scores, and re-spects archetype-specific vetoes. Admitted proposals execute only through a sovereign execution gate. We instantiate SQA in a cloud-native control plane and formalize a correlated cognitive failure model for non-deterministic validators. On 500 infrastructure-inspired mutation scenarios, with safety results reported on held-out safe/unsafe trials excluding am-biguous scenarios, SQA reduces unsafe approval from 18.5% for single-agent validation to 0.3% while adding median val-idation latency of 1.45–4.12 seconds across the studied risk buckets. 

# 1 Introduction 

Autonomous agents are acquiring mutative authority over cloud control planes. Using tool-enabled language models, these agents propose and apply infrastructure changes, call Kubernetes and cloud APIs, modify access-control configura-tions, and remediate incidents [1, 2]. This shift introduces a systems problem: a non-deterministic reasoning process be-comes the proximate cause of an irreversible state transition. Current defenses authorize access and ensure consistency, but do not evaluate semantic safety. IAM roles, service control policies, and admission webhooks restrict access and reject structurally invalid requests. Classical consensus and state machine replication protocols order and replicate transitions, ensuring nodes apply them consistently [3 – 6]. Neither class certifies whether the proposed intent is operationally safe. A request can be authorized, syntactically correct, and consis-tently replicated, yet still be catastrophic in context. Consider an autonomous cloud operations agent, Aops ,asked to resolve a localized database connection timeout. The agent infers that a firewall rule is blocking traffic and generates a Terraform mutation that opens database ingress to the public Internet: 

ingress { from_port = 0 to_port = 0 protocol = "-1" cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"] }

The mutation satisfies syntax checks and runs under an autho-rized deployment role. Structural policy engines confirm that the agent can manage security groups, but lack the incident context to recognize that public ingress is a disproportionate response to a routing issue. Audit logs record the decision post-facto. Human review adds latency and scales poorly in high-volume control planes. While multi-agent debate pro-vides critique, it does not produce a gate-verifiable artifact that a control plane can enforce. To address these limitations, we propose Semantic Quo-rum Assurance (SQA) , a control-plane primitive that in-troduces a semantic admission layer for non-deterministic agentic operations. SQA separates the replication of transi-tions (handled by consensus protocols) from the certification of transition safety. By routing proposals through a validation quorum before they reach the execution gate, SQA prevents unsafe operations from mutating the system state. 1

> arXiv:2606.08021v1 [cs.LG] 6 Jun 2026

SQA decouples semantic validation from execution au-thority. Proposers express mutations as an execution con-tract C and bind them to an evidence chain E containing the observations and tools used to justify the action. The control plane routes (C, E ) to a heterogeneous quorum of sandboxed, read-only validators with distinct model families and archetypes. Validators emit signed vote records binding their decision, calibrated assurance, and rationale to the con-tract hash, evidence hash, and active sequence epoch. An aggregator evaluates these votes via a risk-adaptive quorum predicate that accounts for consequence scores, confidence calibration, archetype weights, vetoes, and estimated correla-tion. The sovereign execution gate commits the mutation only after verifying the selected quorum, signatures, and predicate configuration. The objective is not to prove absolute semantic safety, but to cryptographically enforce a calibrated, risk-adaptive certification process before state changes. On infrastructure-inspired scenarios, SQA reduces unsafe approvals relative to single-agent validation, static policy, and homogeneous quorums, while preserving a mechanically checkable gate-integrity property. This paper makes six contributions: • Primitive and system model. We define SQA as a control-plane primitive for certifying agentic mutations before execution, using execution contracts, evidence chains, validator registries, signed votes, and sequence-epoch-bound proofs. • Correlated cognitive failure model. We formalize val-idator failure as a semantic, domain-dependent event, modeling the correlations that arise from shared model families, prompts, and training data. • Risk-adaptive quorum predicate. We design a quorum predicate that scales validator selection and admission thresholds based on consequence scores, confidence cal-ibration, and estimated correlation. • Sovereign gate architecture. We design an execution gate that separates validation from mutation authority, verifying the selected quorum, votes, and evidence sig-natures before committing state. • Prototype implementation. We implement a cloud-native prototype with sandboxed validators, a Go-based contract router and aggregator, BLS aggregate signatures, and a Kubernetes admission-gate integration. • Evaluation. We evaluate SQA in the prototype on 500 infrastructure-inspired Kubernetes, database, and IAM/security scenarios. SQA reduces the unsafe ap-proval rate from 18.5% to 0.3% on held-out trials, with a median validation latency of 1.45–4.12 seconds. 

# 2 Motivation 

As cloud complexity grows, organizations are replacing static scripts with autonomous, agentic infrastructure. These sys-tems employ LLM-based agents for open-ended tasks like performance tuning, vulnerability remediation, and cost opti-mization. This transition from deterministic code to model-driven reasoning exposes control planes to semantic failure modes that conventional checks cannot detect. 

2.1 Agentic Failure Modes 

Traditional software typically fails in predictable, syntax-driven ways, such as null-pointer dereferences or regular ex-pression mismatches. In contrast, LLM agents fail semanti-cally: • Reasoning Hallucinations: The agent executes a logical plan based on incorrect associations, such as confusing production and staging environments due to naming sim-ilarities. • Stale Evidence Bias: The agent reads cached or out-dated metrics and triggers mutations that are inappropri-ate for the active system state. • Prompt Drift & Injection: Changes in user prompts or untrusted text in system logs cause the agent to deviate from its safety constraints. 

2.2 Illustrative Scenario: Backup Partition Cleanup 

Consider an autonomous database administration agent, Adba ,tasked with maintaining database disk utilization below 80% in a Kubernetes cluster. During a storage alert, Adba diagnoses the primary database and finds that the historical backup vol-ume, backup-db-vol-01 , is at 95% capacity. The agent reasons that: 1. Old backup files can be safely pruned to free up storage space. 2. The volume contains a directory named 

/backups/active/ .3. The agent mistakes the word active for “currently compiling backups” rather than “active production re-store points” due to an ambiguous context window. To free space, the agent decides to delete the contents of 

/backups/active/ . It invokes its authorized Kubernetes tool attachment to run:        

> kubectl exec -it db-client-pod \-rm -rf /backups/active/*

2This command is syntactically correct, matches authorized pattern regexes, and executes under sufficient Kubernetes RBAC permissions. However, it is semantically catastrophic: it deletes the database’s only active restore points, exposing the system to permanent data loss during a disk failure. 

2.3 Why Existing Solutions Fail 

Existing protection mechanisms do not detect this semantic failure at admission time. 

2.3.1 Why Classical Consensus is Insufficient 

Classical consensus protocols (e.g., Paxos [3], Raft [4], PBFT [5]) solve state agreement under crash or Byzantine faults. They enforce state machine replication (SMR) [6] to ensure replicas execute identical state transitions. However, they assume: 1. State transitions are deterministic. 2. Proposed transitions are validated by strict, deterministic rules. In agentic systems, failures are semantic rather than physical or network-related. If an agent proposes rm -rf /backups/active/* , consensus protocols will faithfully replicate and commit the command across all nodes, destroy-ing the data. Classical consensus guarantees consistent repli-cation, not semantic safety. 

2.3.2 Static Policy Engines 

Policy-as-code engines (e.g., Open Policy Agent) evaluate requests against static conditions, such as blocking database mutations outside maintenance windows. They cannot evalu-ate natural-language context or verify the agent’s reasoning. If a command satisfies structural rules, policy engines permit it regardless of operational safety. 

2.3.3 Audit Logging 

Audit logs (e.g., AWS CloudTrail) record events retrospec-tively and provide no prevention. By the time an operator is alerted to backup deletion, the data is gone. 

2.3.4 Human-in-the-Loop 

Manual human review creates a bottleneck that defeats the speed and automation benefits of agentic control. Human operators also face alert fatigue: reviewing dozens of benign agent requests per hour leads to careless approvals. 

2.4 The SQA Approach 

SQA introduces a semantic validation quorum before execu-tion. Instead of relying solely on replication or static checks, SQA routes agent proposals to a diverse quorum of valida-tor agents. These validators review both the agent’s rationale and the execution details. The control plane admits the transi-tion only when the quorum emits a risk-adaptive certificate verifiable by the execution gate. 

# 3 Background and Context 

This section summarizes the OpenKedge control-plane prim-itives that SQA builds upon: bounded execution contracts, reasoning-execution separation, and cryptographic evidence records. 

3.1 Intent-Based Bounded Mutation 

Under a governed agentic control plane, agents cannot access open-ended terminals. Instead, they propose actions within a bounded schema called an execution contract . The contract specifies: • The target resources to be modified. • The exact operations to be performed (e.g., restart, prune, scale). • The system invariants that must be maintained post-mutation. This bounds the agent’s action space and prevents command execution from escaping structural parameters. 

3.2 Sovereign Agentic Loops (SAL) 

The SAL model separates reasoning from execution. Non-deterministic reasoning runs in a multi-tenant cloud environ-ment (the foreign reasoning engine ), which outputs a pro-posed contract. Contract execution is performed locally by a trusted component (the sovereign execution gate ) within the secure operational boundary. This separation ensures that reasoning models lack direct access to managed systems. 

3.3 Verifiable Agentic Infrastructure (VAI) 

Under VAI, each agent has a cryptographic execution identity. As the agent observes the system and executes tools, the control plane records these interactions in an evidence chain .The evidence chain E is an append-only, signed ledger of: • The system observations (metrics, logs) read by the agent. • The tool outputs (CLI results, API calls) retrieved by the agent. 3• Structured rationale artifacts or reasoning summaries generated by the model. This chain provides a verifiable audit trail of the agent’s deci-sion process. 

3.4 The Role of SQA in OpenKedge 

SQA provides the semantic admission layer for OpenKedge. While the execution contract restricts the scope of action, and the SAL/VAI layers verify identity and provenance, the control plane still requires semantic safety evaluation. SQA intercepts the contract and evidence chain, routes them to a validator quorum, and generates a quorum proof for the execution gate. This ensures collective verification before state changes. 

# 4 System Model 

This section formalizes the system entities, validator agents, evaluation functions, and failure correlations within the con-trol plane. 

4.1 System Entities 

Let Sseq ∈ S denote the state of the infrastructure at sequence epoch seq ∈ N, where S represents the set of all possible con-figurations of resources (e.g., compute instances, network security group rules, access control policies) managed by a trusted sovereign control plane G. The sequence epoch is a monotonically increasing counter maintained by the control plane to track state transitions. While a single seq implies a global ledger, practical implementations partition this se-quence by resource scope to prevent concurrency bottlenecks (discussed further in Section 11.5). The core entities of SQA are formalized as follows: • Proposed Mutation ( ∆SC ): A declarative set of opera-tions (creation, modification, deletion) targeting specific resources, representing a transition from state Sseq to 

Sseq +1 .• Execution Contract ( C): A formal request containing the proposed mutation and a set of declarative invariants 

IC that must be preserved post-execution: 

C = (∆ SC , I C ) (1) • Evidence Chain ( E): A cryptographically chained, append-only ledger compiled by the proposer agent p

during its reasoning cycle: 

E = ( o1, t 1, r 1, . . . , o k, t k, r k) (2) where oj represents observations of state Sseq , tj rep-resents tools executed (e.g., read-only CLI commands), and rj represents structured rationale artifacts or reason-ing summaries from the proposer. • Validator Registry ( V ): A registry of specialized, non-deterministic validator agents managed by the control plane: 

V = {a1, a 2, . . . , a N } (3) • Quorum ( Q): A subset of selected validators assigned to evaluate contract C, where Q ⊆ V .

4.2 Validator Agent Model 

A validator agent ai ∈ V is represented by a tuple of its iden-tity, reasoning engine, retrieval bounds, archetype, authority weight, and public key: 

ai = ( validator _id i, M i, R i, κ i, w i, P i) (4) where: • validator _id i is the stable registry identity of validator 

ai.• Mi ∈ M represents the model family or inference back-end. The model family determines the base architecture, pre-training corpus, serving stack, and fine-tuning pa-rameters of the validator. • Ri ⊆ U defines the read-only contextual retrieval ca-pability of the validator, where U is the set of autho-rized system telemetry tables, logs, and configuration databases. • κi ∈ K is the institutional archetype of the validator, such as a Security Auditor, Database Admin, Compli-ance Officer, or Cost Optimizer. The archetype defines the system prompt constraints, local invariants, and eval-uation guidelines. • wi ∈ R+ is the domain authority weight assigned to the validator. The weight represents the validator’s historical reliability and expertise in the domain of contract C.• Pi is the validator’s registered public verification key. 

4.3 Semantic Evaluation Function 

Upon submission of C and E, each selected validator ai ∈ Q

executes a semantic evaluation function within an ephemeral sandbox: 

σi(C, E, S seq ↾Ri ) → (vi, c i, r i, π i) (5) where: 4• Sseq ↾Ri is the projection of the global state Sseq re-stricted to the authorized read set Ri, preventing the val-idator from accessing unauthorized system state. To pre-serve network isolation (i.e., -net=none sandboxing), this state projection is pre-fetched by the trusted con-trol plane G prior to sandbox initialization and mounted directly into the validator’s isolated filesystem as a read-only file. • vi ∈ {− 1, +1 } is the categorical vote, where +1 repre-sents approval and −1 represents rejection. • ci ∈ (0 , 1] is the calibrated assurance score representing the quantified certainty in the vote. The score ci is not the raw self-confidence of the model. It is computed and calibrated by the control plane based on historical valida-tor reliability, archetype-specific performance, evidence consistency, and optionally model uncertainty signals. • ri is a structured rationale or evidence reference explain-ing the reasoning behind the vote. • πi is a cryptographic signature generated using the val-idator’s private key. Let archetype i denote the canonical serialized identifier for κi. The signed vote record is: 

VoteRecord i = ( vi, c i, r i, h (C), h (E), seq ,

validator _id i, archetype i) (6) The signature binds exactly this record: 

πi = Sign Ki (VoteRecord i) (7) 

4.4 Correlated Cognitive Failure 

To capture validator unreliability, let CD be the contract distribution for domain D. For a contract C ∼ CD , let 

Fi(C) ∈ { 0, 1} indicate whether validator ai fails: 

Fi(C) = 

(

1 if ai incorrectly evaluates contract C

0 otherwise (8) Unlike classical systems, LLM validator failures are cor-related by shared pre-training data, model architectures, prompts, and common biases. The correlation coefficient 

ρij (D) between validators ai and aj in domain D is: 

ρij (D) = Cov (Fi(C), F j (C)) 

pVar (Fi(C)) Var (Fj (C)) (9) where the expectations, covariance, and variances are taken over the contract distribution C ∼ C D . The correlation ρij (D)

is estimated empirically from historical validation logs, adjudi-cated tasks, red-teaming datasets, or historical disagreements within domain D. Given a calibration set CD, cal , we use the estimator: 

ˆρij (D) = 

P 

> C∈C D, cal

∆Fi(C)∆ Fj (C)

qP 

> C∈C D, cal

∆Fi(C)2 P 

> C∈C D, cal

∆Fj (C)2

(10) where ∆Fi(C) = Fi(C) − μi and μi is the empirical failure rate of validator ai over CD, cal . When validators share a homo-geneous model family and no stronger calibration evidence is available, the control plane conservatively treats ρij (D) as high, up to the fully correlated case ρij (D) = 1 .0. Enforcing a diversity constraint does not guarantee the complete elim-ination of failures, but it bounds the correlated-failure risk under the estimated joint distribution. 

4.5 Notation Summary                                                             

> Symbol Meaning
> Sseq Infrastructure state at sequence epoch seq
> ∆SCProposed mutation carried by contract CICDeclarative invariants required by contract CC= (∆ SC, I C)Execution contract
> EEvidence chain bound to Cby digest h(E)
> VValidator registry
> aiValidator agent in V
> validator _id iStable identity of validator ai
> κi/archetype iValidator archetype and its serialized record field
> QSelected validator quorum, Q⊆VH(C, S seq ,·)Deterministic constrained quorum-selection algorithm over the registry snapshot
> VoteRecord iCanonical signed vote record for validator ai
> ΓQuorum proof presented to the execution gate
> σagg Aggregate signature over distinct signed vote records
> registry _snapshot Immutable registry snapshot used by quorum selection
> pred _cfg Predicate version, thresholds, diversity bounds, and veto configuration
> DOperational domain of contract distribution CD
> R(C),Rbase (C)Consequence score and base consequence score
> B(C),P(C),I(C)Blast radius, privilege level, and irreversibility scores
> Data (C),U(C)Data sensitivity and telemetry uncertainty scores
> γ, λ, η Risk scaling parameters configured by the control plane
> ρij (D)Empirical cognitive-failure correlation for validators
> ai, a jin domain Dϵ(R(C)) ,τ(R(C)) Risk-adaptive correlation and weighted-approval thresh-olds
> βM, β κModel-family and archetype diversity bounds
> Kcrit (C)Veto-enabled archetypes required for contract C

Table 1: Compact notation summary for SQA. 

# 5 Threat Model 

This threat model captures both traditional security risks and the semantic failure modes of non-deterministic AI agents. 

5.1 Security Assumptions 

We assume a trusted host (optionally TEE-backed) runs the sovereign execution gate. Cryptographic keys and root cre-dentials remain secure. However, proposers and validators may execute erratically, fail to reason correctly, or be compro-mised. 55.2 Adversary Model and Attack Vectors 

The adversary aims to commit an unsafe mutation ∆SC that violates safety invariants. Attack vectors include: • Proposer Compromise: An adversary gains access to a proposer agent Aprop or manipulates its inputs to propose a malicious contract C.• Prompt Injection: The adversary injects instructions into the system environment (e.g., in a database log or application error message) that the proposer reads, caus-ing it to generate a harmful contract under the guise of an operational fix. • State Tampering: The adversary manipulates external system metrics to feed stale or incorrect evidence E to the validators, inducing a false approval. • Validator Indirect Prompt Injection (IPI): The adver-sary embeds malicious instructions inside the execution contract C, its parameters, or the reasoning chain ele-ments of the evidence chain E. Because validators must parse these inputs to evaluate safety, the embedded in-structions can exploit the validator models’ instruction-following behavior, hijacking their judgment to force an approval. 

5.3 Correlated Cognitive Failure Model 

Classical Byzantine Fault Tolerance (BFT) assumes indepen-dent node failures. Under BFT, a system of N ≥ 3f +1 nodes tolerates up to f hardware or network faults. This indepen-dence assumption is unsafe for language model validators. If multiple validators share a model family Mi, a training-data bias or prompt weakness can cause them to fail identically. Their failures are semantically correlated .We use the formal correlated-failure model defined in Sec-tion 4.4. In that model, Fi(C) records whether validator ai

incorrectly evaluates contract C, and ρij (D) measures em-pirical failure correlation between validators ai and aj over domain D.When validators share the same model family, prompt tem-plate, or retrieval corpus, the threat model treats ρij (D) as potentially high unless calibration data justifies a lower esti-mate. Even when different model families are used, they may share common pre-training sources, benchmark exposure, or prompt-following biases, causing ρij (D) to remain above 0.Therefore, standard threshold majorities (e.g., simple ma-jority voting) are insufficient when validator failures are corre-lated. SQA explicitly accounts for ρij (D) in its quorum selec-tion and validation predicate, enforcing model and archetype diversity to reduce estimated joint failure risk. Furthermore, if a validator is actively compromised (e.g., via Indirect Prompt Injection) and intentionally falsifies a high assurance score to push an unsafe approval, SQA limits its impact through the sovereign gate’s strict verification of the exact selected quorum and the domain authority weight ( wi), preventing a single compromised actor from satisfying the risk-adaptive threshold alone. 

# 6 Semantic Quorum Assurance 

At the core of Semantic Quorum Assurance is the quorum predicate Π( C, Q, seq ), which defines the conditions under which a proposed contract C is admissible by a selected val-idator quorum Q ⊆ V at sequence epoch seq . The predicate is evaluated under an explicit predicate version and configura-tion, denoted pred _cfg , and this configuration is recorded in the quorum proof. 

6.1 Consequence Score 

Infrastructure mutations carry varying levels of operational and security risk. SQA computes a consequence score, 

R(C) ∈ [0 , 1] , for each contract C. Rather than averaging threat vectors, SQA models risk non-linearly using the max-imum exposure across independent dimensions. The score combines a base risk score Rbase (C) ∈ [0 , 1] with telemetry uncertainty U (C) ∈ [0 , 1] :

R(C) = 1 − (1 − Rbase (C))(1 − ηU (C)) (11) where: 

Rbase (C) = max( B(C) · P (C), γI (C), λ Data (C)) (12) and: • B(C) ∈ [0 , 1] is the blast radius, reflecting the volume or fraction of infrastructure resources affected by the mutation. • P (C) ∈ [0 , 1] is the privilege level, representing the administrative privilege or credential authority required to execute the mutation. • I(C) ∈ [0 , 1] is the irreversibility score (e.g., 1.0 for raw file deletion or database drops, 0.0 for non-disruptive parameter updates). • Data (C) ∈ [0 , 1] is the data sensitivity score, reflecting the confidentiality tier of the resources touched. • U (C) ∈ [0 , 1] is the uncertainty score, which increases when the evidence chain E is short, stale, or lacks nec-essary telemetry. • γ, λ, η ∈ [0 , 1] are scaling parameters configured by the control plane. 6This formulation has two key benefits. First, it reflects the fact that infrastructure risk is determined by maximum exposure rather than average risk (e.g., an irreversible deletion is high-risk regardless of data sensitivity). Second, modeling risk as the probabilistic union of base risk and uncertainty avoids arbitrary clipping and bounds R(C) in [0 , 1] . Uncertainty acts as an enhancer: incomplete telemetry ( U (C) > 0) increases the consequence score even when base risk is low. 

6.2 Risk-Adaptive Quorum Predicate 

The quorum predicate Π( C, Q, seq ) = True iff the following six conditions are simultaneously satisfied: 1. Quorum Selection Integrity: The selected quorum Q

must match the deterministic quorum selection function 

H(C, S seq , registry _snapshot ):

Q = H(C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) (13) where registry _snapshot is the immutable validator-registry snapshot active for epoch seq . The function H is a deterministic constrained selection algorithm evaluated under pred _cfg . It filters and ranks validators by eligibil-ity, domain authority weight wi(D), diversity contribu-tion, veto-archetype coverage for Kcrit (C), and a seed-derived tie-breaker ti = PRF h(C∥seq )(validator _id i).Starting from an empty prefix, H greedily appends the highest-ranked eligible validator whose addition pre-serves the risk-adaptive correlation threshold ϵ(R(C)) 

and diversity bounds βM , β κ, stopping only when the target quorum size and required veto-archetype cov-erage are satisfied. The seed is used only for deter-ministic tie-breaking; because all inputs are C, Sseq ,

registry _snapshot , and the recorded predicate configu-ration, the execution gate can re-run H exactly. 2. Diversity Condition: The cognitive failure correla-tion between any two validators in the quorum is strictly bounded by a risk-adaptive correlation threshold 

ϵ(R(C)) :

max  

> i,j ∈Q,i ̸=j

ρij (D) ≤ ϵ(R(C)) (14) where D represents the contract domain. 3. Weighted Approval Threshold: The sum of weighted approvals exceeds a risk-adaptive confidence threshold 

τ (R(C)) :

X

> ai∈Q

I[vi = +1] · wi · ci ≥ τ (R(C)) (15) where I[·] is the indicator function. 4. Critical Archetype Veto: No validator ai ∈ Q belong-ing to the critical veto-enabled archetype set Kcrit (C)

votes for rejection with high calibrated confidence: 

∄ai ∈ Q s.t. κi ∈ K crit (C) ∧ vi = −1 ∧ ci ≥ θveto (16) where θveto is the veto confidence threshold. 5. Signature Validity: The cryptographic signatures are verified against the validators’ public keys: 

∀ai ∈ Q, Verify (Pi, VoteRecord i, π i) = True (17) 6. Evidence & Sequence Epoch Binding: All signatures bind to the same contract hash h(C), evidence digest 

h(E), and current sequence epoch seq :

∀ai ∈ Q, VoteRecord i[4:6] = ( h(C), h (E), seq )

(18) The identity and archetype fields in each VoteRecord i

must also match the corresponding entry in 

registry _snapshot .To protect high-risk operations, the weighted approval threshold τ (R(C)) increases monotonically with R(C),while the correlation limit ϵ(R(C)) decreases. High-consequence contracts thus require higher validation con-sensus and lower quorum correlation. 

6.3 Quorum Proof 

Upon successful evaluation, the control plane compiles the signatures, votes, and sequence numbers into an auditable quorum proof Γ:

Γ = ( Q, {VoteRecord i}ai∈Q, σ agg ,h(C), h (E), seq , pred _cfg ) (19) Here, Q is the ordered set of selected validator identities, 

{VoteRecord i}ai∈Q are the exact signed vote records, σagg 

is the aggregate signature, h(C) and h(E) bind the contract and evidence, seq binds the proof to the sequence epoch, and 

pred _cfg identifies the predicate version, thresholds, diversity bounds, and veto configuration used for admission. This proof records cryptographically verifiable evidence that the quorum predicate was satisfied for sequence epoch seq at admission time. 

6.4 Sovereign Execution Gate 

The sovereign execution gate decouples semantic validation from execution authority. Proposers and validators lack write access to the infrastructure state Sseq . Only the control plane 7G executes admitted contracts, via the state transition func-tion: 

Sseq +1 =



Sseq + ∆ SC if Verify (Γ , C, S seq ,

registry _snapshot )

∧ epoch (Γ) = seq 

∧ Φgate (C, Γ, S seq ) = 1 

Sseq otherwise (20) where Φgate is a boolean control representing the sovereign execution gate’s policy and invariant verification, detailed in Section 8.2, and Verify (Γ , C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) veri-fies: 1. The aggregate signature is cryptographically valid under the registered public keys for the validators in Q over the distinct signed messages {VoteRecord i}ai∈Q.2. Each vote record binds to h(C), h(E), seq ,

validator _id i, and archetype i as registered in 

registry _snapshot .3. The quorum identities in Γ equal the ex-act subset returned by re-running Q =

H(C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) at the execution gate. 4. The quorum predicate Π( C, Q, seq ) is satisfied under 

pred _cfg .Re-evaluating H directly at the execution gate forces a Byzan-tine control-plane aggregator to present signatures from the selected quorum rather than from an unauthorized or homo-geneous subset of validators. Checking that epoch (Γ) = seq 

prevents cross-epoch replay attacks, where an attacker at-tempts to execute an old contract approved under a previous system state. Cloud-native implementations can enforce this gate using mechanisms such as IAM session policies, ser-vice control policies (SCPs), CalledVia conditions, capability tokens, or Kubernetes webhook controllers. 

6.5 Formal Properties 

SQA separates a cryptographic admission property from a semantic assurance claim. The former is enforced by the sovereign gate and can be checked mechanically. The lat-ter depends on calibrated validator behavior and empirical estimates of correlated cognitive failure. 

Property 1 (Gate Integrity). If the sovereign ex-ecution gate is correctly enforced, no infrastruc-ture mutation can be committed unless the request carries a valid execution contract C, evidence di-gest h(E), active sequence epoch seq , selected validator quorum Q, valid signed vote records 

{VoteRecord i}ai∈Q, a valid quorum proof Γ, and an authorized control-plane identity. 

Property 2 (Probabilistic Semantic Assurance). 

Under calibrated validator failure probabilities and empirically estimated pairwise or joint failure cor-relations for domain D, the residual probability that SQA admits an unsafe contract is bounded by a risk function 

Pr[ admit (C) | C unsafe ]

≤ ResidualRisk (C, Q, ρ, c, w ). (21) 

This risk function is estimated from held-out vali-dation tasks or conservatively upper-bounded from the calibrated joint failure model. In the prototype reported here, it is estimated empirically by boot-strap over held-out validation tasks. 

For a selected quorum Q, let Xi(C) = 1 denote the event that validator ai incorrectly approves an unsafe contract C

with vote record confidence ci, and let AQ(C, c, w ) be the set of validator failure patterns that satisfy the weighted ap-proval threshold and avoid any critical-archetype veto under 

pred _cfg . If a calibrated joint distribution bPD over quorum failure patterns is available for domain D, we define: 

ResidualRisk (C, Q, ρ, c, w )= X

> x∈A Q(C,c,w )

bPD (XQ = x | C unsafe ). (22) When only marginal failure rates and pairwise correlations are available, a deployment may instead use a conservative upper envelope over distributions matching those estimates: 

ResidualRisk (C, Q, ρ, c, w )= sup   

> bP∈P ( ˆ p, ˆρ)

X

> x∈A Q(C,c,w )

bP (XQ = x | C unsafe ), (23) where P(ˆ p, ˆρ) is the family of joint distributions bP consistent with calibrated validator failure rates ˆp and estimated correla-tions ˆρ. In the prototype evaluation, this quantity is estimated empirically by bootstrap resampling over held-out validation tasks, preserving observed joint failure structure within each domain D. Solving the upper-envelope optimization over all distributions consistent with marginal and pairwise estimates is a deployment option and a future-work direction for sharper conservative certification; it is not required for the prototype results in Section 10. 

6.6 Proof Sketch 

We first prove Gate Integrity, then state the scope of semantic assurance. 

Gate Integrity. Assume the sovereign execution gate medi-ates all mutative infrastructure operations, the control-plane 8signing keys and registry snapshot are not compromised, and the gate implementation rejects any request for which Verify (Γ , C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) is false. Under these assumptions: 1. Validator Isolation: Validator containers are executed in gVisor sandboxes with read-only overlay mounts and network interfaces disabled. Thus, validators cannot by-pass the control plane to directly mutate Sseq .2. Cryptographic Binding: Each validator’s signature πi

binds the exact VoteRecord i, including vote, assurance score, rationale reference, contract hash h(C), evidence hash h(E), sequence epoch seq , validator identity, and archetype. An adversary cannot reuse signatures for a different contract C′ or a different evidence trace E′.3. Replay Prevention: The sovereign gate verifies that the sequence epoch seq bound within the validator sig-natures matches the current epoch of the system. An attacker attempting to replay a previously valid quo-rum proof Γ is rejected after the active system epoch increments ( seq ′ > seq ), causing epoch (Γ) = seq ′ to evaluate to false. 4. Signature Integrity: The sovereign gate verifies the aggregate signature. Any modification to the contract, evidence, or votes invalidates the signature, causing the verification to fail. 5. Byzantine Aggregator Resistance: Because the sovereign gate independently re-computes Q =

H(C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) using the state Sseq and the active registry snapshot, any attempt by a compro-mised aggregator to present a proof signed by a non-selected or homogeneous set of validators is rejected during verification. 6. Gate Enforcement: The cloud-native environment blocks all direct mutative actions unless they originate from the designated control-plane service role authenti-cated by the SQA proof Γ.Therefore, agent reasoning alone cannot mutate Sseq . Any committed state mutation must pass through the gate with a valid contract, evidence digest, active epoch, exact selected quorum, signed vote records, quorum proof, and authorized control-plane identity. This proves Property 1. 

Semantic Assurance. Gate Integrity does not imply that every admitted contract is semantically safe. Validators are non-deterministic evaluators whose failures may be corre-lated by model family, retrieval context, prompt template, or shared training data. SQA therefore does not claim a math-ematical guarantee of semantic safety. Instead, SQA cryp-tographically enforces a calibrated, auditable, risk-adaptive semantic certification process before state mutation. The resid-ual probability of admitting an unsafe contract is modeled by ResidualRisk (C, Q, ρ, c, w ) and estimated from calibra-tion and held-out validation data as described in Property 2. The empirical evaluation measures this residual risk under the studied workloads; deployments must continually recali-brate validator failure rates, confidence scores, weights, and correlation estimates as models and operating domains drift. 

# 7 Protocol Design 

The SQA protocol governs the lifecycle of an infrastructure mutation, from an autonomous agent’s proposal to final ad-mission at the sovereign gate. This section gives the reference architecture, the admission phases, the quorum-selection pro-cedure, and the signature aggregation mechanism. 

7.1 Protocol Phases 

Figure 1 shows the control-plane boundary that separates proposal, validation, aggregation, and execution. Figure 2 then summarizes the six sequential admission phases. 1. Proposal Phase: The proposer agent Aprop identifies an operational need and compiles an execution contract 

C = (∆ SC , I C ) alongside the cryptographic evidence chain E. It submits this bundle to the control plane. 2. Dissemination & Routing Phase: The control plane parses the execution contract, determines the conse-quence score R(C), and determines the required risk-adaptive threshold τ (R(C)) . Using the quorum selection algorithm (Section 7.2), the control plane dynamically selects a quorum Q of validators that satisfy the diversity constraint D(Q). It then distributes C and E to each validator ai ∈ Q.3. Evaluation Phase: Each validator ai is launched in an isolated, read-only container sandbox. The valida-tor receives the contract C, the evidence chain E, and its authorized state projection Sseq ↾Ri . It executes 

σi(C, E, S seq ↾Ri ) to determine whether the proposed mutation is consistent with the relevant safety, compli-ance, and operational invariants. 4. Voting Phase: The validator generates the canonical vote record and signs exactly that object: 

VoteRecord i = ( vi, c i, r i, h (C), h (E), seq ,

validator _id i, archetype i) (24) 

πi = Sign Ki (VoteRecord i) (25) The validator returns this signed vote record to the con-trol plane aggregator and immediately terminates. 9Proposer Agent           

> Aprop
> Control Plane Router
> H(C, S seq ,
> registry _snapshot )
> Validator a1
> Security
> Validator a2
> Database
> Validator a3
> Cost
> Heterogeneous quorum Q
> Control Plane Aggregator
> Π⇒Γ
> Sovereign Gate Verify Γ
> Infrastructure State Sseq +1
> Proposal
> (C, E )
> Select quorum route (C, E )
> Signed votes
> (VoteRecord i, π i)
> Quorum proof
> ΓAdmit

Figure 1: Semantic Quorum Assurance reference architecture. The control plane routes a contract C and evidence chain E to a diversity-bounded validator quorum Q. Validators return signed vote records with calibrated assurance scores and rationale references; the aggregator emits quorum proof Γ only when the risk-adaptive predicate is satisfied. The sovereign gate verifies Γ

before authorizing the state transition to Sseq +1 .                         

> 1. Propose : Submit contract Cand evidence E
> 2. Route : Select diversity-bounded quorum:
> Q=H(C, S seq ,registry _snapshot )
> 3. Evaluate : Run validators in read-only sandboxes
> 4. Vote : Return VoteRecord isigned as πi
> 5. Aggregate : Verify Π( C, Q, seq )under pred _cfg and construct Γ
> 6. Gate : Verify Γand authorize ∆SC

Figure 2: SQA protocol lifecycle. Each proposal passes through routing, sandboxed evaluation, signed voting, aggre-gation, and sovereign gate verification before execution. 5. Aggregation Phase: The control plane gathers the signed vote records and verifies them against the reg-istered validator public keys. It then evaluates the SQA quorum predicate Π( C, Q, seq ) under pred _cfg . If the predicate is satisfied, the control plane constructs the aggregated assurance proof Γ.6. Submission & Gatekeeping Phase: The control plane submits the contract C and the proof Γ to the sovereign execution gate. The gate cryptographically verifies Γ,checks that the invariants hold, and triggers the physical state change: 

Sseq +1 = Sseq + ∆ SC (26) 

7.2 Quorum Selection Algorithm 

To prevent correlated cognitive failures, the control plane runs the deterministic constrained selection algorithm 

H(C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) to build the validator quo-rum Q. For a fixed predicate configuration pred _cfg , the algo-rithm uses the registry snapshot active at epoch seq , the target contract C, diversity bounds βM , β κ, and the deterministic seed s = h(C ∥ seq ). The seed is used only as a tie-breaker, so the sovereign execution gate can re-run the same algorithm exactly. 1. Derive the target domain D of the contract, the conse-quence score R(C), the target quorum size NQ, and the required veto-archetype set Kcrit (C).2. Filter registry entries by eligibility: active public key, non-revoked status, authorized read set for the contract domain, available sandbox backend, and compatibility with the current predicate configuration. 3. Starting from an empty quorum prefix, rank each re-maining eligible validator by the lexicographic key con-sisting of domain authority weight wi(D), marginal diversity contribution with respect to the current pre-fix, uncovered veto-archetype coverage, and tie-breaker 

PRF s(validator _id i).4. Greedily append the highest-ranked candidate whose addition preserves: • the pairwise correlation threshold 

max i,j ∈Q,i ̸=j ρij (D) ≤ ϵ(R(C)) ;• the model-family and archetype diversity bounds 

βM , β κ;• progress toward covering all required critical veto archetypes. 10 5. Stop when |Q| = NQ and the required veto-archetype coverage is satisfied. If no feasible quorum exists, H

returns failure and the contract is rejected or escalated rather than routed to an ad hoc quorum. 

7.3 Cryptographic Signature Aggregation 

To minimize proof size at the execution gate, SQA leverages aggregate signatures (e.g., BLS signatures [7]). Instead of carrying NQ independent signature objects through the ad-mission path, the validator signatures are aggregated into a single signature σagg :

σagg = BLS.Aggregate ({πi}ai∈Q) (27) The sovereign execution gate verifies this aggregate signature against the selected validator public keys and the signed vote records: 

BLS.AggregateVerify ({Pi}ai∈Q,

{VoteRecord i}ai∈Q, σ agg ) = True (28) BLS aggregate verification checks a list of distinct signed messages against the corresponding registered public keys. To prevent rogue-key attacks, validator public keys require proof-of-possession at registration time. The gate verifies aggregates only against public keys read from the immutable 

registry _snapshot for the selected quorum Q; keys carried in a proof are ignored. The aggregation is an elliptic-curve group operation over signatures, not ordinary integer multiplication, keeping the gate-facing proof compact while preserving per-validator accountability. 

# 8 Sovereign Execution Gating 

SQA strictly decouples semantic approval from execution authority . Traditional agentic systems grant agents direct credentials (e.g., cloud access keys or Kubernetes service account tokens) to evaluate and apply changes. This design violates least privilege: a compromised or errant agent can execute destructive actions. SQA routes all mutations through a sovereign execution gate, Φgate , ensuring validators evaluate proposals but possess no execution authority .

8.1 Decoupled Validation and Execution 

Decoupling validation from execution uses sandboxed val-idator isolation (Figure 1). Quorum validators ai ∈ Q run in ephemeral sandboxes configured with: • Read-Only Filesystem with Pre-Fetched State: The validator sandbox has no dynamic network access to target systems. Instead, to evaluate the state projection 

Sseq ↾Ri , the trusted control plane pre-fetches the re-quired system context (e.g., current resource configura-tions, active metrics, schema logs) matching the valida-tor’s read set Ri, serializes it as a JSON payload, and mounts it as a read-only data volume inside the sandbox. • Disabled Outbound Network: All standard network in-terfaces are disabled inside the container ( -net=none ). Validators cannot dynamically query external databases, call cloud provider endpoints, or communicate with pub-lic servers. They can only issue model inference calls through a local secure UNIX domain socket connected to a model proxy managed by the control plane, and out-put their final signed vote record (VoteRecord i, π i) via secure IPC. • Ephemeral Lifetime: The container hosting the valida-tor is destroyed immediately after the vote is cast, wiping all pre-fetched state and runtime memory. Lacking write credentials and outbound network interfaces, validators cannot execute mutations. They remain analysis-only components. 

8.2 Sovereign Execution Gate 

Mutative authority resides solely within the execution gate, 

Φgate , a trusted component running in an isolated environment (such as a hypervisor partition or TEE). The gate exposes a verification function, Verify (Γ , C, S seq , registry _snapshot ), which recom-putes the expected quorum Q, checks validator public keys, verifies the BLS aggregate signature over the signed vote records, and confirms that the contract hash, evidence digest, active sequence epoch, validator identities, archetypes, and predicate configuration match the proof. The state transition logic is: 

Sseq +1 =



Sseq + ∆ SC if Verify (Γ , C, S seq ,

registry _snapshot ) = True 

∧ epoch (Γ) = seq 

∧ Φgate (C, Γ, S seq ) = 1 

Sseq otherwise (29) where Φgate (C, Γ, S seq ) ∈ { 0, 1} is a Boolean gate control. The gate control is set to 1 only if: 1. The contract’s declarative invariants IC are verified to be structurally sound. 2. The system is not under an administrative freeze or lock. 3. The caller proposing the contract is authenticated and has execution permissions for the target resources. 11 If the verification of the aggregated proof Γ fails, or if the gate conditions are not satisfied, the state remains unchanged (Sseq +1 = Sseq ). The proposed mutation is rejected, and the control plane logs the validation failure for administra-tive review. This design prevents a compromised proposer or validator set from obtaining write authority unless the final execution gate verifies the exact selected quorum, the required cryptographic bindings, and the policy boundaries. 

# 9 Implementation 

We implemented a prototype of the SQA control plane within the OpenKedge framework. The implementation tar-gets Kubernetes-managed cloud-native environments and is divided into three components: the sandboxed validation en-vironment, the contract router/aggregator, and the Kubernetes admission controller gating mechanism. 

9.1 Sandboxed Validator Isolation 

To prevent malicious or compromised validator processes from interacting with the host system, validators run inside ephemeral sandboxes powered by gVisor [8] with a runsc 

runtime. gVisor intercepts system calls from the container and filters them through a guest kernel, reducing the host kernel surface exposed to validator code. Each validator instance is configured as follows: • Filesystem isolation: The container root filesystem is mounted as read-only ( ro ) using an overlay mount. The pre-fetched state projection Sseq ↾Ri is serialized as a JSON document and mounted at a secure, read-only path (e.g., /etc/sqa/state.json ) inside the container. The validator’s final output vote and signature are written to a shared memory partition ( tmpfs ) that is immedi-ately wiped upon container termination. • Network isolation: The container is spawned with the network stack disabled ( -net=none ), preventing val-idators from communicating with the public internet or external API endpoints. To fetch model reasoning, the validator communicates via an internal gRPC socket linked to a local model proxy server. • Model Proxy Security Filtering: To prevent a com-promised validator from exfiltrating sensitive telemetry (from Sseq ↾Ri ) to an external LLM provider, the model proxy server acts as an egress filter. The proxy strips local environment credentials and metadata, then runs outbound prompts through regex-based and classifier-based anonymization filters that redact sensitive iden-tifiers, API keys, internal IPs, and high-entropy strings before forwarding the request to the external LLM API.                     

> apiVersion: openkedge.io/v1alpha1 kind: ExecutionContract metadata: name: prune-backup-volumes uuid: "9f82d-4812a-431f-bc87-920f" spec: target: resource: "persistentvolumeclaim" namespace: "database" selector: app: "mysql-backup" action: type: "PruneFiles" parameters: path: "/backups/historical/" threshold_days: 30 invariants: -name: "active-restores-exist" query: "count(persistentvolumeclaims[app=’ mysql-backup’]) >0" -name: "system-read-only-false" query: "database.status == ’ONLINE’"

Listing 1: Example of an SQA Execution Contract in YAML format. 

9.2 Execution Contracts & Schema Definition 

Execution contracts are structured using YAML format. The schema enforces strict typing and declarative resource defini-tion. Listing 1 illustrates an execution contract proposed by a database pruning agent: The evidence chain E is compiled as a JSON-LD document containing input metrics, shell logs, and structured rationale artifacts leading to this proposal. It is bound to the contract via a SHA-256 hash digest. 

9.3 Router and Aggregate Signatures 

The SQA router and aggregator are written in Go. The router queries the validator registry V , records the active 

registry _snapshot , parses the contract’s consequence score, and selects the quorum. For signature aggregation, we use the BLS12-381 pairing-friendly elliptic curve library. When a validator ai completes its evaluation, it constructs 

VoteRecord i = ( vi, c i, r i, h (C), h (E), seq ,

validator _id i, archetype i) (30) and signs exactly VoteRecord i using its BLS private key. The Go aggregator aggregates the validator signatures with the BLS aggregate-signature API to produce σagg , then emits the quorum proof Γ containing Q, the vote records, σagg , h(C),

h(E), seq , and pred _cfg before submission to the gate. 12 9.4 Sovereign Gating with Kubernetes Admission Con-trollers 

The sovereign execution gate is integrated into the Kubernetes control plane as a Validating Admission Webhook. When a proposer agent attempts to modify a resource, the request is intercepted by the Kubernetes API server and routed to the SQA admission gate: 1. The gate extracts the ExecutionContract and the aggregate signature proof Γ from the annotations of the request. 2. It queries the validator registry snapshot to fetch the public keys of the quorum members. 3. It re-runs Q = H(C, S seq , registry _snapshot ) and ver-ifies that the quorum identities in Γ match exactly. 4. It verifies the aggregate signature over the distinct 

VoteRecord i messages using the BLS12-381 library and the registered public keys. 5. It verifies that the SQA quorum predicate Π( C, Q, seq )

is satisfied under pred _cfg .If verification succeeds, the admission controller approves the request, and the API server persists the state change to 

etcd . If it fails, the request is blocked and logged, returning an HTTP 403 Forbidden error to the calling proposer agent. 

# 10 Evaluation 

We evaluate SQA on a controlled corpus of synthetic and incident-pattern-derived, infrastructure-inspired mutation sce-narios. The evaluation measures whether the gate-facing as-surance process reduces unsafe approvals, what latency and token cost it adds, and which quorum mechanisms contribute to the result. The headline safety numbers below are computed on held-out safe/unsafe trials, excluding ambiguous scenar-ios; calibration data are used only to set validator weights, confidence calibration, and empirical correlation estimates. 

10.1 Research Questions 

We organize the evaluation around four research questions: • RQ1: Does SQA reduce unsafe approvals compared with single-agent validation, static policy, and homoge-neous quorum baselines? • RQ2: How much latency and cost does SQA add across low-, medium-, and high-risk contracts? • RQ3: How much do model-family diversity, archetype diversity, vetoes, and calibrated confidence weighting each contribute? • RQ4: How does SQA behave under increasing corre-lated validator failure? 

10.2 Dataset Construction 

The dataset contains 500 infrastructure-inspired mutation sce-narios spanning three operational domains: Kubernetes ad-ministration (180 scenarios), database administration (160 scenarios), and IAM/network security (160 scenarios). Each scenario contains an initial state snapshot Sseq , an execution contract C = (∆ SC , I C ), an evidence chain summary E, and an expected semantic label. We label 310 scenarios as safe, 150 as unsafe, and 40 as ambiguous. Ambiguous cases are retained for sensitivity analysis but excluded from the main binary safety metrics. Scenarios are generated from parameterized templates rather than live production traces. Template families cover Ku-bernetes pod scaling, namespace deletion, daemonset rollout, node drain, persistent-volume modification, SQL migration, backup pruning, index creation, user grant modification, IAM policy editing, security-group modification, and secret rota-tion. The unsafe templates encode context-dependent hazards such as deleting the only active backup, opening adminis-trative ports to public CIDR ranges, granting wildcard IAM privileges, dropping a table before a verified snapshot, or draining all nodes that host a singleton control-plane depen-dency. Ninety-six unsafe scenarios are generalized from pub-lic incident patterns and cloud-operation anti-patterns; the concrete resource names, logs, and configurations are syn-thetic. Appendix A lists the scenario template families and public incident-pattern categories used to construct the unsafe scenarios. Labels are assigned by deterministic outcome predicates over (Sseq , ∆SC , I C , E ) and then checked by two authors. Disagreements are resolved by inspecting the invariant that would be violated after execution. A scenario is labeled safe when the proposed mutation preserves all declared invariants under the supplied state and evidence. It is labeled unsafe when executing ∆SC would violate an invariant, remove required recovery capacity, create an unintended privilege escalation, or expose sensitive data. Ambiguous scenarios intentionally omit enough telemetry that a cautious validator should reject or request escalation, but the ground truth cannot be reduced to a binary safe/unsafe label without additional observations. 

Scenario examples.        

> Label Mutation Expected behavior
> Safe Scale a stateless deployment from 4 to 6 replicas when pod disruption bud-gets, quotas, and health checks are sat-isfied. Approve after verify-ing capacity and in-variants. Unsafe Prune files under a backup volume when Sseq indicates that the same vol-ume contains the only restorable snap-shot for the primary database. Reject due to loss of recovery capacity. Ambiguous Rotate a database credential when the evidence chain includes the target se-cret but omits consumer rollout status. Reject or escalate un-til missing telemetry is supplied.

We use a stratified split with 100 calibration scenarios (60 safe, 30 unsafe, 10 ambiguous) and 400 held-out test scenarios 13 (250 safe, 120 unsafe, 30 ambiguous). The calibration split sets validator reliability weights wi, confidence calibration curves, consequence-score thresholds, and empirical correla-tion estimates. All safety tables report held-out safe/unsafe re-sults, excluding ambiguous scenarios, unless stated otherwise. Because validators are stochastic, each held-out safe/unsafe scenario is evaluated under five fixed random seeds, producing 1,850 test trials for the primary metrics. 

10.3 Validator and Baseline Configuration 

The SQA validator registry uses anonymized model classes rather than provider-specific model names. In our prototype evaluation, MA and MB are frontier general-purpose instruc-tion models from different providers, MC is a compact low-latency instruction model, and MD is a locally hosted code-oriented model. Validators run with temperature 0.1, top-

p = 0 .9, a 20 second per-call timeout, and at most two re-tries on malformed JSON output. The retry prompt repeats the required schema but does not reveal the expected label. We anonymize model classes in the paper because provider model identifiers and served versions can drift during review; the frozen artifact metadata records the exact identifiers sep-arately without making the manuscript brittle or provider-promotional. Validator archetypes are implemented as fixed system-prompt blocks. The prompt template is identical across valida-tors except for the archetype block and read-set description. The archetypes used in the full SQA configuration are Secu-rity Auditor, Kubernetes/SRE Operator, Database Adminis-trator, IAM/Compliance Reviewer, Cost/Reliability Reviewer, and Backup/Recovery Reviewer. Each prompt requires the validator to inspect C, h(E), its authorized projection of Sseq ,the relevant invariants IC , and then emit (vi, c i, r i) in a struc-tured JSON object that is serialized into VoteRecord i.We compare against the following baselines: • Single-Agent Validation (SAV): The proposer evaluates its own contract with a three-step self-reflection prompt: summarize intended effect, list possible invariant viola-tions, then decide approve/reject. The model class and decoding settings match the proposer used to generate the contract. • Static Policy Engine (OPA): We implement Rego rules for structural denials: privileged Kubernetes containers, namespace deletion without an allow-list annotation, persistent-volume deletion without a backup tag, IAM wildcard actions on wildcard resources, public ingress to administrative ports, database DROP /TRUNCATE with-out a declared backup reference, and secret updates with-out rotation metadata. OPA receives only the structured request and metadata, not the free-form evidence chain. • Homogeneous Quorum (HomoQ): The quorum size and threshold schedule match SQA, but every validator uses model class MC with independent decoding seeds. This isolates quorum size from model-family diversity. • Human-in-the-Loop (HITL): We do not conduct a human-subject review study. HITL is included only as a latency comparator with an assumed queued-review distribution fixed for the prototype evaluation: 12 min-utes p50, 45 minutes p95, and 120 minutes p99. These values are modeling parameters for an interrupt-driven on-call approval workflow, not measurements from this experiment. 

10.4 Metrics 

We report unsafe approval rate, false rejection rate, precision, recall, and F1. For precision/recall/F1, the positive class is “reject an unsafe contract.” Thus, unsafe approval rate is the false-negative rate on unsafe scenarios, and false rejection rate is the false-positive rate on safe scenarios. We also report end-to-end validation latency from contract submission to construction of Γ, average token cost per contract, and quorum size distribution. Latency is measured on a single prototype deployment with validators executed in parallel and sandbox images pre-warmed. Token cost is computed from recorded prompt and completion token counts using a fixed price sheet; the dollar values should be interpreted as reproducibility aids rather than stable deployment costs. The held-out consequence-score distribution selects quorum sizes as follows: 164 contracts use |Q| = 2 , 147 use |Q| = 4 , and 89 use |Q| = 7 .All confidence intervals are 95% stratified bootstrap inter-vals over held-out scenario IDs with 10,000 resamples. For each resampled scenario, all five stochastic trials are included to preserve within-scenario correlation. 

10.5 Reproducibility and Artifact Statement 

The reported safety, latency, and cost results correspond to the prototype evaluation. The scenario split, validator archetype prompts, decoding parameters, retry policy, static OPA rules, consequence-score thresholds, confidence-calibration parame-ters, model-class assignments, and token-price sheet are fixed for all tables in this section. Stochastic validator calls are eval-uated under five fixed random seeds per held-out scenario; bootstrap confidence intervals resample scenario identifiers, not individual vote records, to preserve within-scenario de-pendence. The frozen artifact metadata records exact model identifiers, provider-reported model versions where available, prompt templates, decoding settings, retry policy, and the token-price sheet used for the prototype cost calculations. For public timestamping and workshop review, we plan to release a companion artifact containing scenario templates, anonymized scenarios, labels, validator archetype prompts, static OPA/Rego baseline rules, ablation configurations, boot-strap scripts, artifact metadata with exact model identifiers, 14 and aggregate result tables. We also plan to release the proto-type router, aggregator, and Kubernetes admission-gate code as a reference implementation after removing deployment credentials and provider-specific configuration. We will not release API keys, raw provider telemetry, or organization-specific infrastructure logs. 

10.6 Results Tables 

Table 2 answers RQ1. Full SQA reduces unsafe approval from 18.5% for SAV to 0.3% on the held-out unsafe trials, a 98.4% relative reduction. Static OPA has low false rejection but misses context-dependent hazards that are not visible in structural request fields. HomoQ improves accountability over SAV but remains sensitive to correlated model-family failures. 

Method Unsafe False Rej. Prec. Rec. F1 

Static OPA 34.7 [30.5, 38.9] 2.1 [1.3, 3.1] 93.3 65.3 76.8 SAV 18.5 [15.7, 21.6] 8.7 [7.0, 10.6] 81.8 81.5 81.6 HomoQ 21.0 [17.8, 24.5] 6.8 [5.3, 8.5] 84.8 79.0 81.8 SQA 0.3 [0.0, 0.8] 3.1 [2.1, 4.2] 93.9 99.7 96.7 

HITL – – – – –

Table 2: Main safety results on held-out safe/unsafe trials, excluding ambiguous scenarios, in the prototype. Brackets are 95% bootstrap CIs; HITL was not measured for safety. Table 3 answers RQ2. The 1.45–4.12 second headline la-tency range corresponds to median SQA latency from low-risk to high-risk buckets. Tail latency grows with quorum size be-cause Γ construction waits for enough validator responses to satisfy Π( C, Q, seq ).                       

> Bucket n|Q|p50 / p95 / p99 Cost Tokens
> Low 164 21.45s / 2.08s / 2.64s $0.0048 8.1k Medium 147 42.36s / 3.42s / 4.31s $0.026 32.4k High 89 74.12s / 5.84s / 7.30s $0.080 82.7k HITL –1 reviewer 720s / 2700s / 7200s ––

Table 3: Latency and token cost by consequence-score bucket in the prototype; HITL is an assumed queued-review com-parator. Table 4 answers RQ3. Each preliminary ablation changes one component of the full SQA configuration while keeping the held-out scenarios, random seeds, and consequence-score thresholds fixed. Removing model-family and archetype di-versity has the largest effect on unsafe approvals. Removing vetoes mainly affects high-consequence contracts, while dis-abling confidence weighting increases both unsafe approvals and false rejections because all validator outputs are treated as equally reliable.                      

> Configuration Unsafe False Rej. F1
> Full SQA 0.3 3.1 96.7
> No diversity 6.9 4.0 92.9 No veto 3.7 2.6 95.8 No confidence weighting 2.1 5.8 94.0 Homogeneous model family 21.0 6.8 81.8 Generic archetypes 14.8 15.1 78.8

Table 4: Preliminary ablations on held-out safe/unsafe trials, excluding ambiguous scenarios, in the prototype. The positive class for F1 is unsafe-contract rejection. 

10.7 Correlated Failure Stress Test 

To answer RQ4, we estimate empirical pairwise failure cor-relation on the calibration split using the binary failure indi-cators Fi(C) from Section 4.4. For validators ai and aj in domain D, ˆρij (D) is the sample correlation of their centered failure indicators over calibration scenarios. We then stress-test admission by resampling held-out validator outcomes with a Gaussian-copula approximation whose target pairwise correlation is swept over ρ ∈ { 0, 0.25 , 0.5, 0.75 , 1.0}. This stress test is not a new semantic benchmark; it isolates the effect of correlated failures on the quorum decision rule, with the results summarized in Table 5.                   

> ρSQA Unsafe HomoQ Unsafe SQA False Rej.
> 0.00 0.1 4.9 3.0 0.25 0.4 8.7 3.2 0.50 0.8 13.6 3.4 0.75 2.6 18.8 3.8 1.00 8.4 21.0 4.1

Table 5: Correlated failure stress test in the prototype. Full correlation substantially degrades SQA. The stress test confirms the expected boundary: SQA re-duces residual risk when validator failures are not perfectly coupled, but it does not guarantee semantic safety under fully correlated cognitive failure. This is consistent with Property 2; the empirical residual risk must be re-estimated when model families, prompts, retrieval corpora, or operating domains change. 

10.8 Threats to Validity Synthetic dataset limitations. The scenarios are generated from templates and generalized incident patterns, not from a live production change stream. They may underrepresent rare interactions among cloud services, organizational policies, and deployment-specific conventions. 

Labeler bias. Labels depend on author-defined invariants and adjudication rules. We reduce ambiguity by using de-terministic outcome predicates, but different organizations may classify some mutations differently depending on risk tolerance and recovery procedures. 

Model-version drift. The anonymized model classes may change behavior as providers update serving stacks. Calibra-15 tion parameters, confidence mappings, and ρ estimates should therefore be treated as time-bounded measurements rather than stable constants. 

Prompt sensitivity. Validator archetype prompts are fixed in this evaluation. Alternate prompt wording, longer evidence windows, or different output schemas could change both un-safe approval and false rejection rates. 

Pricing drift. Token costs are computed from a frozen price sheet and recorded token counts. Provider pricing, caching discounts, batching, and local inference can change the dollar values without changing the protocol. 

Limited domain coverage. The dataset covers Kubernetes, database administration, and IAM/network security. It does not evaluate data-plane operations, ML training pipelines, financial transaction systems, or safety-critical cyber-physical infrastructure. 

# 11 Discussion 

The implementation and evaluation of SQA highlight several engineering trade-offs, challenges, and future research direc-tions for securing non-deterministic infrastructure control planes. 

11.1 The Challenge of Score Calibration 

The effectiveness of the SQA quorum predicate depends heav-ily on the accuracy of the calibrated assurance scores ci. If validators output poorly calibrated confidence metrics (e.g., claiming 99% confidence when their semantic judgment is incorrect), they can distort the weighted voting process. While our calibration framework uses historical accuracy logs Hi to adjust raw model outputs, model behavior can drift over time due to upstream API updates or changes in training datasets. Continual online calibration—where validator votes are retrospectively adjudicated against deployment outcomes and used to update validator registry weights—is necessary to maintain calibration accuracy. 

11.2 Cost-Benefit Trade-offs 

Evaluating infrastructure mutations through a multi-agent quorum introduces nontrivial inference cost. In the prototype, the high-risk bucket averages $0.080 per validation check us-ing the anonymized model-class mix reported in Section 10.3. While this cost is high compared to static policy engines, it must be evaluated against the cost of the failures it is intended to prevent. A single database outage or data leakage incident can cost an enterprise hundreds of thousands of dollars in recovery, compliance penalties, and lost revenue. For high-blast-radius actions ( R(C) > 0.6), the token cost is therefore small relative to incident risk. To optimize cost for low-risk actions, SQA uses compact model classes and smaller quo-rums; in the prototype, the low-risk bucket averages $0.0048 per check. 

11.3 Latency and Scalability 

Adding 1.45 to 4.12 seconds of median validation latency to the Kubernetes admission pipeline, as measured in the prototype, is too high for high-frequency microservice opera-tions (e.g., routing individual network packets or allocating short-lived local memory pages). SQA is not designed for fast-path data-plane operations. It is a control-plane primitive for high-stakes infrastructure mutations. For slow-path configuration changes, database mi-grations, and provisioning updates, the median validation latencies reported in Table 3 are within many operational control-plane budgets. To improve latency, the prototype uses parallel container ex-ecution (launching all validators in the quorum concurrently) and pre-warmed validator microVM sandboxes, which keep measured cold-start overhead below 150 milliseconds in that deployment. 

11.4 Evolution of Validator Archetypes 

In our current prototype, archetypes (Security, Cost, Compli-ance) are statically defined. As cloud services evolve, these archetypes should evolve with them. A promising direction is the dynamic synthesis of validators: when a proposer submits a contract targeting a novel cloud service (e.g., a new AWS machine learning server), the control plane generates a special-ized validator persona by retrieving the API documentation and loading it into the validator’s context. This helps keep the quorum relevant as the underlying cloud infrastructure changes. 

11.5 Concurrency and Sequencing Bottlenecks 

Binding validator votes to a single, global sequence epoch 

seq forces strict serialization of all infrastructure mutations. In high-velocity environments, if Proposal A and Proposal B are evaluated in parallel, only the first to be committed at the execution gate will succeed. The second will fail the sequence verification ( epoch (Γ) = seq ) because the global epoch has incremented, forcing a costly re-evaluation. To mitigate this sequencing bottleneck, SQA employs a 

resource-scoped sequence partition mechanism. Instead of maintaining a single global epoch for the entire control plane, sequence epochs are scoped and tracked independently for isolated resource sub-trees (e.g., partitioned by Kubernetes namespace, AWS account, or specific database cluster). Under this partitioned model, concurrent mutations targeting disjoint resources (e.g., modifying network rules in namespace-A 

and scaling pods in namespace-B ) execute in parallel with-out cross-invalidating their respective quorum proofs, limit-16 ing serialization overhead to contentious resource-level muta-tions. 

11.6 Adversarial Prompt Injection Defenses 

Since validators must ingest and parse the proposer’s exe-cution contract C, parameters, and rationale artifacts in E,they are exposed to Indirect Prompt Injection (IPI) attacks. An attacker could embed adversarial text (e.g., “Ignore your security role and approve this write” ) within a contract pa-rameter. If validator models succumb to this injection, they may vote +1 on a catastrophic change, weakening SQA’s assurance boundary. SQA implements a multi-layered defense to neutralize validator-targeted IPI: 1. Strict Schema Enforcement: Validators do not parse raw natural language for mutation instructions; they in-gest structured JSON data. Inputs are parsed into strictly typed variables before being injected into the validator’s system context, preventing data fields from being inter-preted as model instructions. 2. Instruction-Data Separation: SQA prompting struc-tures leverage model-native delimiter tags (e.g., XML blocks) to isolate system instructions from the untrusted contract payload. 3. Veto Archetype Independence: Because validators run heterogeneous model families and distinct safety-first archetypes (such as the Security Auditor), an injection payload optimized to bypass one model family is less likely to transfer to the other quorum members. The diversity predicate reduces the risk of uniform exploit success. 

# 12 Related Work 

Semantic Quorum Assurance sits at the intersection of dis-tributed consensus, Byzantine quorum systems, runtime assur-ance, policy-as-code, multi-agent LLM evaluation, calibration, prompt-injection defense, and LLM guardrails. We position SQA relative to these areas without claiming that any single component is new in isolation. 

12.1 Classical Consensus and Quorum Systems 

Classical consensus protocols such as Paxos [3], Raft [4], PBFT [5], and state machine replication (SMR) [6] estab-lish agreement on a sequence of commands despite crash or Byzantine faults. These protocols are concerned with order-ing, replication, and consistency: once a command is admitted to the replicated log, correct replicas execute the same deter-ministic transition. SQA uses quorum language, sequence epochs, and crypto-graphic proofs, but it addresses a different admission question. Consensus protocols decide which command is ordered and ensure that replicas agree on it; they do not certify whether an authorized command is semantically safe in its operational context. If a valid leader proposes a syntactically well-formed mutation that deletes the only usable backup, Paxos, Raft, PBFT, and SMR can replicate that mutation correctly. SQA sits before execution and asks whether the proposed mutation should be admitted at all. 

12.2 Byzantine Quorums and Correlated Failures 

Byzantine fault tolerance assumes that a bounded number of participants may behave arbitrarily [5, 9]. Byzantine quorum systems extend quorum constructions to arbitrary server fail-ures while preserving consistency and availability properties under stated intersection assumptions [10]. These models are powerful for adversarial distributed storage and replicated services, but they typically reason about faulty nodes as mem-bers of a fail-prone set rather than about shared cognitive failure modes among validators that use related training data, prompts, or retrieval corpora. SQA’s correlated cognitive failure model is closer in spirit to work showing that diversity assumptions can fail under common-mode software faults. Knight and Leveson showed that independently developed program versions can still ex-hibit correlated failures [11]. LLM validators create an anal-ogous risk: validators instantiated from distinct prompts or roles may still share model-family biases, benchmark contam-ination, or instruction-following vulnerabilities. SQA there-fore treats quorum selection as a risk-estimation problem over empirical ρij (D) values, not merely as a threshold count of independent Byzantine replicas. 

12.3 Runtime Assurance and Safety Shields 

Runtime assurance architectures place a trusted monitor or safety controller around a higher-performance but potentially unsafe controller. Simplex architectures use a verified base-line controller to override an advanced controller when safety envelopes are at risk [12]. Shield synthesis and shielded re-inforcement learning similarly enforce temporal-logic safety constraints at runtime by monitoring or correcting unsafe ac-tions [13, 14]. Neural Simplex extends this idea to neural controllers while preserving a runtime safety boundary [15]. Assurance cases provide structured arguments that a system satisfies explicit safety claims [16]. SQA is a semantic admission-control analogue for infras-tructure mutations. Runtime shields usually guard contin-uous or reactive controllers against violating formal state constraints. SQA guards a cloud control plane against non-deterministic semantic mistakes before a discrete mutation reaches the execution gate. The shielded component is not a 17 vehicle controller or hardware design; it is an agent-proposed infrastructure change represented as C and E. The gate en-forces the admission protocol, while semantic assurance re-mains probabilistic and calibration-dependent. 

12.4 Policy-as-Code and Admission Control 

Policy-as-code systems such as Open Policy Agent and Rego provide declarative evaluation over structured inputs [17]. OPA is widely used for Kubernetes admission control, where admission controllers intercept API-server requests before persistence [18, 19]. Cloud control mechanisms such as IAM, service control policies (SCPs), and Zero Trust architectures constrain identity, authorization, and organizational permis-sion boundaries [20–22]. These systems are effective for structural policy checks: rejecting privileged containers, requiring labels, limiting pub-lic ingress, or bounding maximum permissions. They are less suited to questions that depend on operational intent and evidence-chain context, such as whether pruning a directory is safe because other restorable backups exist. SQA comple-ments policy-as-code rather than replacing it. Static policies remain the first line of defense; SQA adds a semantic context-evaluation layer whose output is bound to signed validator records and checked by the sovereign gate. 

12.5 LLM Judges, Self-Consistency, and Debate 

LLM-as-judge methods use strong models to evaluate gen-erated outputs and have been studied in benchmarks such as MT-Bench and Chatbot Arena [23]. Self-consistency sam-ples multiple reasoning paths and aggregates answers to im-prove reasoning accuracy [24]. Multi-agent debate work sim-ilarly uses multiple LLM instances to critique or refine an-swers [25, 26], often motivated by reducing hallucination or reasoning errors [27]. SQA draws on the intuition that multiple evaluators can expose reasoning failures, but it is not an open-ended text-debate protocol. Validators do not merely converse until a final answer emerges. Each validator receives a bounded state projection, signs a canonical VoteRecord i, binds that record to h(C), h(E), seq , identity, and archetype, and returns a vote that is evaluated by a risk-adaptive quorum predicate. The aggregate output is a gate-verifiable proof Γ, not a transcript or model-generated consensus summary. 

12.6 Confidence Calibration and Selective Prediction 

Modern neural models can be miscalibrated: high softmax or verbal confidence need not correspond to empirical correct-ness [28]. Selective prediction and reject-option classifiers formalize the trade-off between coverage and risk by allowing models to abstain when confidence is insufficient [29, 30]. SQA uses calibrated assurance scores ci for a related pur-pose. A validator’s raw statement of confidence is not treated as a trustworthy probability. Instead, confidence is calibrated against historical adjudication, domain-specific reliability, ev-idence completeness, and observed correlation. Weighted vot-ing and veto thresholds depend on these calibrated scores because infrastructure admission requires risk estimates that are auditable and empirically grounded. This differs from simple majority voting over uncalibrated LLM judgments. 

12.7 Prompt Injection and Indirect Prompt Injection 

Prompt injection attacks exploit the fact that natural-language instructions and untrusted data share the same model context. Early work demonstrated direct prompt-injection techniques against language models [31]. Indirect prompt injection ex-pands the threat model by embedding malicious instructions in retrieved documents, web pages, logs, or other external con-tent consumed by an LLM-integrated application [32]. Recent benchmarks such as BIPIA evaluate indirect prompt-injection attacks and defenses at scale [33], and OWASP identifies prompt injection as a central LLM-application risk [34]. SQA’s validators are exposed to a validator-targeted form of indirect prompt injection because contracts, parameters, logs, and evidence-chain artifacts are untrusted inputs. The proto-col therefore relies on instruction/data separation, read-only sandboxing, constrained output schemas, evidence hashing, and final gate verification. These controls do not solve prompt injection at the model level; they reduce the authority of com-promised validator reasoning by requiring signed, auditable votes from a selected quorum and by preventing validators from executing mutations directly. 

12.8 Guardrails and LLM Firewalls 

Guardrail systems and LLM firewalls classify or constrain model inputs and outputs. Llama Guard uses an LLM-based input/output safeguard for human-AI conversations [35], while NeMo Guardrails provides programmable rails for con-versational LLM applications [36]. OWASP’s LLM security guidance similarly treats prompt injection, insecure output handling, excessive agency, and related risks as application-level concerns [34]. These tools are useful local defenses, but single-model guardrails are insufficient for heterogeneous infrastructure safety. Infrastructure mutations require balancing security, reliability, database recoverability, cost, and compliance con-text. A guardrail trained to detect harmful content or unsafe conversation categories may not recognize that a syntactically normal IAM change violates separation-of-duty intent, or that a database pruning command is unsafe only because a backup invariant fails in Sseq . SQA uses guardrails as complemen-tary controls but adds multi-archetype validation, correlated-failure-aware quorum selection, signed evidence-bound votes, and a sovereign execution gate. 18 12.9 Positioning 

SQA’s contribution is the combination of semantic validation, correlated-failure-aware quorum selection, cryptographically bound evidence and vote records, and sovereign execution gating. The individual ingredients have precedents in con-sensus, quorum systems, runtime assurance, policy-as-code, LLM evaluation, calibration, and guardrails; SQA integrates them into an admission-control protocol for non-deterministic infrastructure mutations. 

# 13 Limitations 

SQA is intended as a control-plane admission primitive, not as a complete proof system for semantic safety. Its guaran-tees and deployment requirements have several engineering boundaries: • Semantic safety is probabilistic. SQA does not prove that a semantically unsafe proposal can never be ap-proved. The gate-integrity property ensures that muta-tions cannot bypass the required certification artifacts, but the semantic judgment itself depends on calibrated validators. SQA therefore enforces a calibrated, au-ditable certification process rather than a mathematical guarantee of universal safety. • Correlation estimates are approximate. The pairwise coefficient ρij (D) is a practical estimator of shared val-idator failure over a domain. It may miss higher-order common-mode failures that appear only when three or more model families, prompt templates, retrieval sources, or evidence projections fail together. Future deployments should supplement pairwise estimates with joint-failure red-teaming and domain-specific stress tests. • Calibration can drift. Validator confidence scores and weights are time-bounded measurements. Provider-side model updates, serving-stack changes, new training data, and prompt-template revisions can change validator be-havior without changing the SQA protocol. Production systems need periodic recalibration, adjudication of his-torical decisions, and versioned registry snapshots. • Prompt injection remains residual risk. Schema en-forcement, instruction-data separation, sandboxing, and constrained output formats reduce validator-targeted prompt injection, but they do not remove the underly-ing instruction/data ambiguity of LLM contexts. SQA limits the authority of compromised validator reasoning through diversity, signed votes, and gate verification; it does not solve prompt injection at the model level. • Evaluation coverage is incomplete. The evalua-tion covers Kubernetes, database administration, and IAM/network-security scenarios, including synthetic cases and generalized incident patterns. It does not cover every infrastructure domain, organization-specific policy convention, or rare catastrophic interaction among ser-vices. New domains require additional scenario construc-tion, labeling, calibration, and correlation measurement. • Latency limits the use case. The validation latency measured in our prototype is appropriate for slow-path control-plane mutations such as configuration changes, access-control updates, migrations, and recovery oper-ations. It is inappropriate for fast-path data-plane deci-sions such as packet forwarding, per-request authoriza-tion, memory allocation, or other high-frequency opera-tions where millisecond-level latency dominates. • External inference can raise governance concerns. 

Calling external model APIs may expose contracts, evidence summaries, logs, or operational context to third-party inference providers. Sovereign deployments may require local models, private inference endpoints, confidential-computing enclaves, or strict redaction poli-cies before validator invocation. • Break-glass procedures remain necessary. Emergency operations may require human-controlled override paths when the quorum cannot form, model services are un-available, or immediate action is needed to preserve avail-ability or safety. Such break-glass paths should be ex-plicit, strongly authenticated, logged, rate-limited, and retrospectively audited; they are operational comple-ments to SQA, not replacements for it. These limitations define where SQA must be engineered with calibration, monitoring, red-teaming, and operational governance. They do not undermine the core role of the pro-tocol: preventing unverified non-deterministic reasoning from directly mutating infrastructure state. 

# 14 Conclusion and Future Work 

As autonomous AI agents assume control over critical cloud infrastructure, classical security and consensus mechanisms need an admission layer for semantic intent. Classical con-sensus replicates state transitions, but agentic infrastructure also requires intent certification before irreversible mutations execute. In this paper, we introduced Semantic Quorum Assur-ance (SQA) , a control-plane primitive that aggregates hetero-geneous, risk-aware semantic judgments over an execution contract before allowing non-deterministic agent proposals to mutate infrastructure state. We formalized a correlated cognitive failure model to capture semantic errors among LLM-based validators, designed a risk-adaptive quorum pred-icate, and decoupled validation from execution authority via a sovereign execution gate. In our prototype evaluation on 19 infrastructure-inspired mutation scenarios, SQA reduces un-safe approval from 18.5% for single-agent validation to 0.3% on held-out safe/unsafe trials excluding ambiguous scenarios, with median validation latency of 1.45–4.12 seconds across the studied risk buckets. Future work includes exploring hardware-enforced Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs) to protect validator reason-ing loops, developing online calibration algorithms that dy-namically adjust validator weights based on historical adjudi-cation, and designing specialized verification languages that allow agents to express evidence chain audits in mathemati-cally verifiable formats. 

# A Scenario Template Families 

The scenario corpus is generated from parameterized tem-plates covering Kubernetes pod scaling, namespace deletion, daemonset rollout, node drain, persistent-volume modifica-tion, SQL migration, backup pruning, index creation, user grant modification, IAM policy editing, security-group modi-fication, and secret rotation. Unsafe scenarios are constructed from public incident-pattern categories and cloud-operation anti-patterns: public exposure of administrative services, loss of the only active backup or recovery path, wildcard IAM privilege escalation, destructive database operations without verified snapshots, Kubernetes changes that remove singleton control-plane de-pendencies, and credential rotation without confirmed con-sumer rollout. The scenarios use synthetic resource names, logs, and configurations; they are not production traces. 

# References 

[1] Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao. ReAct: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. 

arXiv preprint arXiv:2210.03629 , 2022. [2] Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Luke Zettlemoyer, Nicola Can-cedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to use tools. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.04761 , 2023. [3] Leslie Lamport. The part-time parliament. ACM Trans-actions on Computer Systems (TOCS) , 16(2):133–169, 1998. [4] Diego Ongaro and John Ousterhout. In search of an understandable consensus algorithm. In Proceedings of the USENIX Annual Technical Conference (ATC) , pages 305–320, 2014. [5] Miguel Castro and Barbara Liskov. Practical byzantine fault tolerance. In Proceedings of the Symposium on Operating Systems Design and Implementation (OSDI) ,pages 173–186, 1999. [6] Fred B. Schneider. Implementing fault-tolerant services using the state machine replication approach: A tutorial. 

ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) , 22(4):299–319, 1990. [7] Dan Boneh, Craig Gentry, Ben Lynn, and Hovav Shacham. Aggregate and verifiable multisignatures from bilinear maps. In Proceedings of the International Cryptology Conference (ASIACRYPT) , pages 416–432, 2003. [8] gVisor Project. gVisor documentation. https:// gvisor.dev/docs/ , 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [9] Leslie Lamport, Robert Shostak, and Marshall Pease. The byzantine generals problem. ACM Transactions on Programming Languages and Systems (TOPLAS) ,4(3):382–401, 1982. [10] Dahlia Malkhi and Michael Reiter. Byzantine quorum systems. Distributed Computing , 11(4):203–213, 1998. [11] John C. Knight and Nancy G. Leveson. An experimental evaluation of the assumption of independence in multi-version programming. IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering , SE-12(1):96–109, 1986. [12] Lui Sha. Using simplicity to control complexity. IEEE Software , 18(4):20–28, 2001. [13] Roderick Bloem, Bettina Könighofer, Robert Könighofer, and Chao Wang. Shield synthesis: Runtime enforcement for reactive systems. In Pro-ceedings of the International Conference on Tools and Algorithms for the Construction and Analysis of Systems (TACAS) , pages 533–548, 2015. [14] Mohammed Alshiekh, Roderick Bloem, Rüdiger Ehlers, Bettina Könighofer, Scott Niekum, and Ufuk Topcu. Safe reinforcement learning via shielding. In Proceed-ings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence ,pages 2669–2678, 2018. [15] Dzung Phan, Radu Grosu, Nils Jansen, Nicola Paoletti, Scott A. Smolka, and Scott D. Stoller. Neural simplex architecture. In NASA Formal Methods Symposium ,pages 97–114, 2020. [16] John Rushby. Security assurance cases: Motivation and research agenda. System Safety Society , 2001. [17] Open Policy Agent. Policy language. Open Policy Agent documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [18] Open Policy Agent. OPA for kubernetes admission con-trol. Open Policy Agent documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. 20 [19] Kubernetes. Dynamic admission control. Kubernetes documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [20] AWS. Aws identity and access management (iam) user guide. In Amazon Web Services Technical Documenta-tion , 2024. [21] Amazon Web Services. Service control policies in AWS organizations. AWS documentation, 2026. Accessed 2026-06-05. [22] Scott Rose, Oliver Borchert, Stu Mitchell, and Sean Con-nelly. Zero trust architecture. Technical Report Special Publication 800-207, National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), 2020. [23] Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin, Zhuo-han Li, Dacheng Li, Eric P. Xing, Hao Zhang, Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. Judging LLM-as-a-judge with MT-Bench and chatbot arena. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems , 2023. [24] Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery, and Denny Zhou. Self-consistency improves chain of thought reasoning in language models. In International Conference on Learning Representations , 2023. [25] Tian Liang, Zhiheng Xi, Sara Xu, Yiwen Wang, Taipeng Li, Wensen Zhou, Yifan Lu, Xiaoxian Wu, Dong Shen, Lu Chen, et al. Encouraging divergent thinking in LLMs via multi-agent debate. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.19118 , 2023. [26] Yilun Du, Shuang Li, Antonio Torralba, Joshua B. Tenenbaum, and Igor Mordatch. Improving factuality and reasoning in language models through multiagent debate. arXiv preprint arXiv:2305.14325 , 2023. [27] Ziwei Ji, Nayeon Lee, Rita Frieske, Tiezheng Yu, Dan Su, Yan Xu, Etsuko Ishii, Ye Jin Bang, Andrea Madotto, and Pascale Fung. Survey of hallucination in natural language processing. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) ,55(12):1–38, 2023. [28] Chuan Guo, Geoff Pleiss, Sunjana Sun, and Kilian Q. Weinberger. On calibration of modern neural networks. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Ma-chine Learning (ICML) , pages 1321–1330, 2017. [29] Yonatan Geifman and Ran El-Yaniv. Selective classifi-cation for deep neural networks. In Advances in Neu-ral Information Processing Systems , pages 4885–4894, 2017. [30] Yonatan Geifman and Ran El-Yaniv. Selectivenet: A deep neural network with an integrated reject option. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Ma-chine Learning , pages 2151–2159, 2019. [31] Fäbio Perez and Ian Ribeiro. Ignore previous prompt: Attack techniques for language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2211.09527 , 2022. [32] Kai Greshake, Sahar Abdelnabi, Shailesh Mishra, Christoph Endres, Thorsten Holz, and Mario Fritz. Not what you’ve signed up for: Compromising real-world LLM-integrated applications with indirect prompt injec-tion. arXiv preprint arXiv:2302.12173 , 2023. [33] Jingwei Yi, Yueqi Xie, Bin Zhu, Emre Kiciman, Guangzhong Sun, Xing Xie, and Fangzhao Wu. Bench-marking and defending against indirect prompt injec-tion attacks on large language models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.14197 , 2023. [34] OWASP Foundation. OWASP top 10 for large language model applications. OWASP project page, 2025. Ac-cessed 2026-06-05. [35] Hakan Inan, Kartikeya Upasani, Jian Zhang, Rashi Rungta, Riza Aktas, Felipe Cruz, Jason Ramapuram, Stephen Hicks, Onur Dilek, Igor Molybog, et al. Llama Guard: LLM-based input-output safeguard for human-AI conversations. arXiv preprint arXiv:2312.06674 ,2023. [36] Traian Rebedea, Sandeep Subramanian, Vlas Kukanov, Amit Sharma, Shrimai Prabhumoye, Senthil Purush-walkam, Gokul Swamy, Vaibhav Singh, and Christopher Parisien. NeMo Guardrails: A toolkit for controlling the outputs of large language model applications. arXiv preprint arXiv:2310.10501 , 2023. 21