Title: Semantic Multi-Agent Intrusion Detection for IoT:Zero-Day and Adversarial Threats with Risk-Aware Reasoning

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.10323v1

Published Time: Wed, 10 Jun 2026 00:26:25 GMT

Number of Pages: 20

Markdown Content:
> 1

# Semantic Multi-Agent Intrusion Detection for IoT: Zero-Day and Adversarial Threats with Risk-Aware Reasoning 

Saeid Jamshidi 

Abstract —The rapid proliferation of Internet of Things (IoT) devices has enabled unprecedented automation and connectivity, but it has also substantially increased the attack surface, exposing networks to sophisticated cyber threats, including zero-day and adversarial intrusions. Traditional Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) struggle to generalize to unseen attacks, often require substantial computational resources, and lack interpretability, particularly in resource-constrained and heterogeneous IoT net-works. Recent advances, including Deep Learning (DL), open-set detection, and Large Language Model (LLM)-based semantic reasoning, address some of these challenges but typically focus on zero-day and adversarial threats and rarely combine semantic reasoning with multi-agent systems. To overcome these limita-tions, we propose a semantic multi-agent IDS that integrates four specialized agents (e.g., Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter) that leverage semantic embeddings and multi-stage probabilistic decision fusion. The Scout induces structured hypotheses from semantic embeddings; the Mutator generates adversarially con-strained variants; the Auditor evaluates consistency and filters unreliable outputs; and the Arbiter produces interpretable, risk-aware alerts. Extensive experiments across multiple real-world IoT datasets demonstrate that the proposed system achieves 95.9% overall detection accuracy, reduces false-positive rates to 6.8%, improves zero-day detection to 87.9%, and maintains computational efficiency suitable for edge deployment. 

Index Terms —Internet of Things, Intrusion Detection System, Zero-day Attacks, Adversarial Attacks, Multi-agent Systems, Semantic Embeddings 

I. I NTRODUCTION 

The rapid proliferation of Internet of Things (IoT) devices has transformed modern environments, including smart homes, industrial automation, and healthcare systems [1] [2]. These devices improve operational efficiency by collecting, process-ing, and exchanging data in real time, but their widespread deployment expands the attack surface and exposes networks to sophisticated cyber threats, including zero-day and ad-versarial intrusions [3] [4]. Effectively, IDS is essential to maintaining system reliability, preserving data confidentiality, and protecting user safety in dynamic, heterogeneous IoT networks [5]. IDS in IoT networks remains challenging due to several interrelated factors. IoT devices are typically resource-constrained, with limited computational, memory, and energy resources, which restrict the deployment of complex Machine Learning (ML)-based IDS [6] [7]. Labeled attack data are often scarce, particularly for novel threats, leading to im-balanced datasets that degrade model generalization. Zero-

S. Jamshidi is with the Department of Software Engineering, Polytechnique Montr´ eal, Montr´ eal, QC, Canada (e-mail: saeid.jamshidi@polymtl.ca). 

day and adversarial attacks exploit unknown vulnerabilities and subtle input perturbations to evade signature-based and anomaly-based IDS [8][9]. Moreover, IoT traffic is dynamic and heterogeneous, with devices operating over diverse pro-tocols and in varying environmental conditions, further re-ducing the reliability of conventional IDS solutions [10]. Recent advances address some of these limitations. Open-Set Dandelion Networks (OSDN) leverage domain adaptation to detect unseen attacks in data-scarce IoT networks [11]. Hybrid LLM-based IDS integrates Large Language Models (LLMs) for semantic reasoning and contextual analysis, enhancing zero-day detection [12]. Multi-agent systems, e.g., MA-IDS, employ retrieval-augmented generation and experience li-braries for continual learning and interpretable decisions [13]. Diffusion-based models, e.g., NI-Diff, capture distributional shifts in network flows, enabling joint detection of zero-day and adversarial attacks [14]. Early detection systems, including A-THENA, apply time-aware encodings to classify partial network sessions and reduce detection latency [15]. Semantic-aware reinforcement learning approaches combine self-supervised embeddings, contextual features, and ensemble classifiers to improve anomaly detection in dynamic and heterogeneous settings [16], [17]. Despite these advances, several gaps remain. Most methods address zero-day and adversarial detection separately, and semantic reasoning is rarely integrated with multi-agent coordination; LLM-based IDS may suffer from domain mismatch when applied directly to raw telemetry. Furthermore, few approaches jointly opti-mize detection accuracy, interpretability, and computational efficiency, all of which are critical for practical IoT net-works [18], [19], [20], [21], [22], [23], [24]. To address these limitations, we introduce a semantic multi-agent IDS 

comprising four specialized agents: Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter. The Scout constructs initial attack hypotheses from semantic embeddings; the Mutator generates seman-tically consistent adversarial variants; the Auditor assesses the consistency, deviation, and reliability of hypotheses; and the Arbiter synthesizes validated evidence into risk-aware, interpretable alerts. Semantic embeddings encode relational structure among network events, preserving behavioral con-text for previously unseen attacks. Probabilistic fusion across agents enables principled, risk-sensitive decision-making. The evaluation approach incorporates zero-day holdout testing, adversarial robustness assessment, repeated-run stability, and cross-dataset transfer validation to ensure generalization and operational reliability. Performance metrics, including accu-

> arXiv:2606.10323v1 [cs.CR] 9 Jun 2026 2

racy, F1-score, false-positive rate, structured output quality, and latency, demonstrate that the system achieves both high detection effectiveness and computational efficiency, making it suitable for deployment in resource-constrained IoT networks. The key contributions of this work are summarized as follows: 1) Multi-Agent Detection: We design and implement asemantic multi-agent IDS that integrates four specialized agents, Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter, to detect known, zero-day, and adversarial intrusions in hetero-geneous IoT networks. This architecture bridges con-ventional IDS with adversarial detection through role-specific semantic reasoning and structured hypothesis exploration. 2) Semantic-Aware and Interpretable Decision-Making: By leveraging semantic embeddings and multi-stage proba-bilistic fusion, the system produces risk-aware, explain-able alerts. Each detection is traceable across reasoning stages, enabling operators to interpret results, prioritize actionable threats, and support real-time IoT security decisions. 3) Efficient and Robust IoT Networks: Through modu-lar agent design and staged reasoning, the solution maintains computational efficiency suitable for resource-constrained IoT networks. Extensive evaluation across multiple datasets demonstrates high detection accuracy, controlled false-positive rates, and resilience against evolving and adversarial attacks. The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Sec-tion II reviews related work. Section III presents the proposed semantic multi-agent IDS. Section IV defines the threat model. Section VI details evaluation, including baseline comparison, zero-day detection, adversarial robustness, and cross-dataset transfer. Section VII interprets the results, Section VIII out-lines limitations and future directions, and Section IX con-cludes the paper. II. R ELATED WORK 

This section reviews prior research on IDS, spanning classi-cal, ML/DL, semantic, open-set, and multi-agent approaches. 

A. Classical IDS Methods 

Early IoT IDS relied on signature-based and anomaly-based methods. Signature-based systems detect known malicious patterns but cannot generalize to unknown threats and require frequent updates. Anomaly-based methods model normal be-havior to detect deviations, yet often yield high false-positive rates and scale poorly with IoT heterogeneity [25]. 

B. ML and DL Approaches 

ML and DL have improved detection accuracy in IoT IDS. Convolutional and recurrent models perform well for multi-class traffic classification but face deployment challenges on resource-constrained edge devices [26]. Recent approaches incorporate self-supervised semantic embeddings and con-textual features to capture important network structures and improve generalization [6], [8]. Reinforcement learning has also been applied to optimize anomaly detection policies under uncertainty [8]. 

C. Open-Set and Zero-Day Detection 

A key limitation in early ML/DL approaches is sensitivity to known attack signatures. Open-set methods model out-of-distribution behaviors to detect unseen intrusions. Open-Set Dandelion networks leverage domain adaptation to detect unseen attacks in IoT networks [11]. Diffusion-based models, e.g, NI-Diff, address distributional shifts by simultaneously capturing zero-day and adversarial patterns [14]. 

D. Semantic and Context-Aware IDS 

Semantic methods go beyond raw packet features by us-ing higher-level contextual embeddings. LLM-augmented IDS applies semantic reasoning to infer latent threat structures and enhance zero-day detection, though domain mismatches may occur with raw telemetry [12]. Self-supervised semantic embeddings have improved anomaly detection across multiple IoT traffic modalities [6], [16]. 

E. Multi-Agent and Explainable Systems 

Multi-agent IDS distributes responsibilities among special-ized components. MA-IDS integrates retrieval-augmented rea-soning with experience libraries for continual learning and interpretable decision-making [13]. Explainable AI techniques further improve operator trust by providing understandable alert decisions, e.g., attention-based interpretability for zero-day detection [27]. 

F. Early and Efficient Detection 

Resource constraints necessitate efficient detection. A-THENA uses hybrid, time-aware encodings to accelerate partial traffic classification, enabling early intrusion detection suitable for edge gateways [3]. These approaches balance detection latency and accuracy but still lack a unified approach to handling zero-day and adversarial attacks. The literature shows that IoT IDS has progressed through classical, ML/DL, semantic, open-set, and multi-agent ap-proaches. Most existing systems address zero-day and ad-versarial threats separately, seldom handling both simultane-ously. Semantic reasoning is typically decoupled from multi-agent systems, limiting integration of understanding. LLM and DL models often encounter domain mismatch and lack interpretability in real-world IoT networks. Few approaches jointly optimize detection accuracy, interpretability, and com-putational efficiency. The proposed semantic multi-agent IDS overcomes these gaps by integrating specialized agents, se-mantic embeddings, and probabilistic fusion to enable robust, interpretable, and scalable intrusion detection. III. M ETHODOLOGY 

This section presents a semantic multi-agent IDS for IoT networks. The central question is: How can an IDS reason about a cyberattack it has never seen before, especially when that attack is deliberately crafted to evade pattern-based defenses? This question leads to three related challenges: 

How can raw telemetry be translated into a representation 3

that preserves behavioral meaning and suppresses superficial variation? How can uncertainty and adversarial evolution be modeled explicitly during detection? How can multiple reasoning stages cooperate to validate and challenge an attack hypothesis before a final decision is made? In contrast to con-ventional IDS methods that directly map an observed telemetry vector to a predefined label, the proposed system formulates detection as a structured semantic inference process. Instead of relying on static discriminative boundaries, the method models cyberattacks as behavioral hypotheses that are constructed, stress-tested, verified, and adjudicated through multiple rea-soning stages. The method follows three principles. First, raw IoT telemetry is projected into a semantic representation space, where behaviorally similar activities remain close even when their low-level manifestations differ. Second, reasoning is decomposed into multiple specialized stages instead of a single monolithic decision unit. Third, uncertainty is treated as an explicit component of the decision process rather than a by-product of low classification confidence. As illustrated in Figure 1, the processing chain starts with IoT telemetry streams collected through the gateway and maps them into semantic embeddings. These embeddings are then processed by four role-differentiated agents: Scout , Mutator , Auditor , and 

Arbiter . The Scout forms an initial semantic hypothesis; the Mutator explores adversarial variants of that hypothesis; the Auditor measures semantic consistency and deviation; and the Arbiter issues the final decision together with a risk score. IDS is thus modeled as a semantic reasoning chain rather than a direct classification step. Formally, for an input observation 

x ∈ Rd, the system introduces an intermediate semantic embedding z and a structured hypothesis variable h, yielding the inference chain 

x → z → h → y. (1) Furthermore, the decision process can be written as 

p(y|x) = 

Z

> H

p(y|h) p(h|z) p(z|x) dh, (2) where H denotes the semantic hypothesis space. This formula-tion separates representation learning and reasoning, enabling uncertainty to be localized across stages. Such a decompo-sition is particularly important in open-world IDS, where unseen and adaptive attacks may violate the assumptions of closed-set classifiers. The system, therefore, employs four non-interchangeable semantic agents with distinct responsibil-ities. The Scout performs semantic abstraction and hypoth-esis induction. The Mutator performs controlled adversarial hypothesis exploration. The Auditor evaluates consistency, contradiction, and semantic drift. The Arbiter integrates the resulting evidence into a security decision and risk estimate. The key contribution of this design is not merely the use of multiple language models, but the assignment of role-specific reasoning functions that support structured search and validation over cyber threat hypotheses. 

A. Formal Problem Definition 

Before formalizing the solution, we revisit a question: What does it mean to “detect” an attack when the attack’s precise form is unknown? Traditional IDS assumes a closed set of predefined labels. In zero-day scenarios, such labels may not exist, requiring a formulation that explicitly accommodates open-world uncertainty. Let x ∈ Rd denote an observed telemetry vector derived from network flows, host-level be-haviors, protocol interactions, and temporal dynamics. The target variable y ∈ Y represents the behavioral class, where Y

includes known attack categories, benign activity, and poten-tially unseen attack families not observed during training. To move beyond closed-set classification, we introduce a semantic hypothesis space H, where each hypothesis h ∈ H represents an interpretable description of a potential attack behavior. In contrast to conventional labels, h is a structured object that may include attack intent, behavioral rationale, observable indicators, uncertainty annotations, and potential adversarial strategies. This representation can combine symbolic attributes and continuous embeddings, enabling both interpretability and compatibility with similarity and consistency-based reasoning. The detection task is thus reformulated as semantic hypothesis selection under uncertainty. The reasoning pipeline is defined as: 

x f (·)

−−→ z ϕs

−→ h ϕm

−−→ h′ ϕv

−→ s ϕa

−→ y, (3) where f (·) denotes the semantic embedding function, ϕs the Scout operator, ϕm the Mutator operator, ϕv the Auditor opera-tor, and ϕa the Arbiter operator. The variable h′ denotes an ad-versarially evolved hypothesis, and s denotes a validation state that captures semantic consistency, deviation, and reliability. This factorization has several important properties. It trans-forms IDS from direct classification into structured semantic inference. It explicitly incorporates adversarial reasoning prior to decision-making, enabling robustness against adaptive and unseen attacks. It allows uncertainty to be decomposed across multiple stages. In particular, the predictive variance can be expressed as: 

Var( y|x) = Eh [Var( y|h)] + Var h (E[y|h]) , (4) which separates intra-hypothesis uncertainty from inter-hypothesis uncertainty. This distinction is critical in open-world detection, where ambiguity often arises from multiple plausible semantic explanations rather than low confidence in a single class. Furthermore, this formulation provides robustness to semantic ambiguity. Similar low-level telemetry patterns may correspond to different high-level interpretations depend-ing on context. Rather than enforcing an early commitment to a single label, the system maintains multiple candidate hypotheses, which are subsequently expanded, evaluated, and validated before a final decision is made. This delayed-commitment mechanism is particularly important in zero-day scenarios, where premature classification may lead to brittle, overconfident predictions. 

B. Semantic Embedding and Information Preservation 

A question arises: How can raw bytes and packets be transformed into a representation that captures what an at-tack means rather than merely what it looks like? The first stage of the system addresses this by constructing a semantic 4 

> Fig. 1: Semantic multi-agent intrusion reasoning system for IoT networks. Telemetry streams collected through the gateway are transformed into semantic embeddings. The Scout agent generates an initial hypothesis; the Mutator explores adversarial variants; the Auditor evaluates similarity and deviation; and the Arbiter produces a final decision with an associated risk score.

embedding space in which low-level telemetry is mapped to behaviorally meaningful latent representations. Formally, let 

z = f (x; W ), (5) where f : Rd → Rk is a projection function parameterized by 

W , with k ≪ d. In contrast to conventional feature extrac-tion, this mapping performs semantic compression , preserving behaviorally relevant information while suppressing nuisance variation and reducing sensitivity to low-level perturbations. To formalize this objective, the embedding is required to satisfy two competing criteria: 

max I(z; x), min I(z; ϵ), (6) where I(·; ·) denotes mutual information and ϵ represents nui-sance variation, irrelevant noise, and attack-irrelevant perturba-tions. This trade-off can be interpreted through the information bottleneck principle, which encourages the representation to retain information relevant for semantic discrimination while discarding irrelevant variability. A convenient formulation of this objective is: 

LIB = I(z; x) − βI(z; y), (7) where β controls the balance between compression and predic-tive relevance. Although the system does not rely on an explicit information bottleneck optimization, this formulation provides a principled interpretation of the embedding objective. In practice, these properties can be used with supervised, self-supervised, and contrastive learning strategies, depending on the availability of data. To ensure robustness against perturba-tions, the projection function is assumed to satisfy a Lipschitz continuity [28] condition: 

∥f (x1) − f (x2)∥ ≤ L∥x1 − x2∥, (8) where L is the Lipschitz constant. Consequently, for any bounded perturbation δ such that ∥δ∥ ≤ η, we have: 

sup 

> ∥δ∥≤ η

∥f (x + δ) − f (x)∥ ≤ Lη. (9) This bound ensures that small input-level perturbations cannot induce large distortions in the semantic embedding. In IDS, such stability is essential for mitigating superficial evasion attempts that do not alter the underlying behavioral semantics. Moreover, the quality of the semantic embedding directly af-fects all subsequent stages of reasoning. Since Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter operate on representations derived from z,any distortion and inconsistency introduced at this stage may propagate through the reasoning chain. Therefore, the embed-ding must simultaneously ensure semantic compactness and sufficient discriminative structure to support stable hypothesis generation, adversarial exploration, and validation. 

1) Semantic Equivalence Classes: To further formalize the representation objective, we define a semantic equivalence relation over telemetry observations: 

x1 ∼ x2 ⇐⇒ ∃ h ∈ H : h(x1) = h(x2). (10) This relation induces an equivalence set E, whose classes correspond to shared underlying behavior. For instance, two network traces may differ at the packet and protocol level while representing the same malicious strategy. The embed-ding function is expected to map elements of the same class into compact latent regions: 

∀x1, x 2 ∈ E : ∥f (x1) − f (x2)∥ ≤ ϵ, (11) while maintaining separation between semantically distinct classes: 

min  

> xi∈E i, x j∈E j

∥f (xi) − f (xj )∥ ≥ δ, i̸ = j. (12) These constraints ensure that the representation is invariant to superficial variations and discriminative across behaviors. 5

In practice, such properties can be approximated using metric learning and contrastive objectives promoting intra-class com-pactness and inter-class separation. Although idealized, this formulation provides a principled guideline for constructing embeddings stable under semantic-preserving transformations. This design is critical for the system, as all reasoning agents operate on representations derived from z. If semantic neigh-borhood structure is not preserved, hypothesis generation, adversarial exploration, and validation may become unstable. Therefore, the embedding serves not merely as preprocessing, but as a structural foundation for the entire reasoning pipeline. 

C. Role-Differentiated Hypothesis Space Exploration 

The core novelty of the system lies in decomposing the reasoning process into four role-specific operators: 

Φ = {ϕs, ϕ m, ϕ v , ϕ a}, (13) each acting on the hypothesis space H under a distinct functional objective. This decomposition can be interpreted as a structured search over semantic explanations: 

h∗ = arg max  

> h∈H

[S(h) − Ω( h)] , (14) where S(h) denotes semantic support and Ω( h) captures penalties due to inconsistency, implausibility, and instability. The reasoning process iteratively refines candidate hypotheses by balancing evidential support against structural penalties. This design differs from standard LLM-based ensembles. Rather than producing parallel outputs that are subsequently aggregated, the agents operate sequentially and interdepen-dently, each specializing in a stage of hypothesis construction, adversarial exploration, validation, and decision-making. This role differentiation reduces redundancy and enables functional specialization across the reasoning chain. Consequently, the system is better understood as a coordinated semantic rea-soning process rather than a collection of interchangeable predictors. The structured interaction among operators allows systematic exploration of the hypothesis space while preserv-ing interpretability across intermediate stages. 

1) Scout Operator (Hypothesis Induction): The Scout serves as the entry point into the hypothesis space. Given a semantic embedding z, it induces an interpretable hypothesis: 

h = ϕs(z), (15) interpreted probabilistically as sampling from a conditional distribution: 

h ∼ p(h|z). (16) The optimal hypothesis is obtained by: 

h∗ = arg max  

> h

[log p(h|z) − λ1C(h)] , (17) where C(h) penalizes unnecessary complexity, favoring parsi-monious yet informative explanations. Functionally, the Scout performs semantic abstraction by transforming the embed-ded observation into a structured hypothesis that captures the likely attack class, the inferred objective, the support-ing evidence, and the residual uncertainty. This combines semantic compression with structured reasoning over latent representations. In practice, the Scout can be instantiated as a high-capacity, reasoning-oriented language model capable of generating coherent, structured outputs from partial evidence. This design choice is critical, as errors introduced at this stage may propagate through subsequent reasoning steps, including adversarial expansion and validation. The Scout output is represented as a structured tuple: 

h = ( c, o, r, u ), (18) where c denotes the hypothesized class, o the inferred adver-sarial objective, r the reasoning trace, and u the uncertainty annotation. Such a structure can be enforced through con-strained and schema-guided generation to ensure consistency across samples. Importantly, the Scout does not produce a final decision; it generates a semantically grounded hypothesis that serves as the basis for subsequent exploration, validation, and decision-making. 

2) Mutator Operator (Adversarial Expansion): The Muta-tor explores the neighborhood of the Scout hypothesis to ap-proximate adversarial evolution. Starting from h, it generates a modified hypothesis: 

h′ = ϕm(h). (19) We define the semantic neighborhood of h as: 

N (h) = {h′ : Sem( h′) = Sem( h)}, (20) i.e., the set of hypotheses preserving core semantic meaning while varying structural realization. The Mutator then seeks: 

h′ = arg max   

> h′∈N (h)

∥h′ − h∥, (21) equivalently, 

max  

> h′

∥h′ − h∥ s.t. dsem (h′, h ) = 0 , (22) where dsem denotes semantic distance. This formulation ex-plores high-variance directions while maintaining semantic invariance, thereby identifying structurally diverse yet be-haviorally equivalent hypotheses. Conceptually, the Mutator addresses: how can a behavior remain semantically consistent while becoming more difficult to detect? This operator approx-imates worst-case adversarial risk: 

sup  

> h′∈N (h)

L(h′), (23) performing a localized worst-case analysis over semantically equivalent hypotheses. In contrast to traditional adversarial methods that perturb raw inputs, this approach operates in the hypothesis space, enabling reasoning about structural varia-tions that preserve behavioral intent. The Mutator is the pri-mary diversity-seeking component of the system. Its role is not validation, but semantic stress testing of the initial hypothesis. In practice, it can be instantiated using generative models that produce diverse yet semantically constrained variations. The output of the Mutator can be represented as: 

h′ = ( m, e, q ), (24) where m denotes the mutated hypothesis, e the evasion de-scriptor, and q explains why the variant is more challenging 6

for detection. Thus, the Mutator functions as an internal semantic adversary, exposing brittle and overconfident hy-potheses before final decision-making and thereby improving the robustness of downstream reasoning stages. 

3) Auditor Operator (Consistency Verification): The Audi-tor evaluates whether the transition from h to h′ preserves semantic validity and introduces no contradictions, drift, or unsupported reasoning. Semantic consistency is defined as: 

C = E[cos( h, h ′)] , (25) and semantic deviation as: 

D = E[∥h − h′∥2]. (26) Based on these measures, the Auditor computes a stability functional: 

S(h) = C − γD, (27) where γ > 0 controls the trade-off between agreement and deviation. Lower S(h) values indicate reduced semantic sta-bility and potentially unreliable reasoning. This formulation resembles a margin-based objective, analogous to contrastive learning, encouraging semantically consistent transformations to remain close while penalizing inconsistent ones. The Au-ditor thus provides a structured mechanism for distinguishing valid adversarial variations from those that introduce semantic inconsistency. Importantly, the Auditor does not generate new hypotheses. It verifies whether the adversarially expanded hypothesis remains logically consistent with the original, pre-serves supporting evidence, and avoids semantic drift. This stage enforces a consistency constraint over the hypothesis space. For precision and low variability, the Auditor can be instantiated using models that emphasize stable, deterministic behavior, such as constrained decoding and validator-oriented architectures. The Auditor output is represented as: 

s = ( C, D, R, ξ ), (28) where R denotes an aggregate reliability score and ξ encodes contradiction and drift indicators. This explicit validation state makes the reasoning process observable and decomposable across stages. 

4) Arbiter Operator(Decision Rule): The Arbiter is respon-sible for forming final decisions. Given the hypothesis h and validation state s, it produces the final output: 

y = ϕa(h, S (h)) . (29) This operation can be interpreted as a form of Bayesian model selection: 

y = arg max  

> y

p(y|h, S ). (30) To quantify decision reliability, the associated risk score is defined as: 

Risk( x) = (1 − C) + D. (31) This formulation combines semantic disagreement and struc-tural deviation, providing a continuous measure of uncertainty rather than a single deterministic label. In contrast to the Scout, the Arbiter does not construct hypotheses; it aggregates and evaluates them. At this stage, semantic abstraction and adversarial stress testing have already been performed, and the Arbiter synthesizes the resulting evidence into a concise and reliable decision. Given its role, the Arbiter can be imple-mented using models and mechanisms emphasizing stability, consistency, and computational efficiency. Since it operates on refined semantic representations, it does not require high generative diversity and can be realized with lightweight components. The Arbiter output is represented as: 

y = (ˆ c, ρ, υ ), (32) where ˆc denotes the predicted class, ρ the operational risk score, and υ the uncertainty. This structured output enables both actionable decisions and explicit characterization of their reliability. The Arbiter thus serves as the final stage in which structured semantic reasoning is translated into an operational security decision. 

D. Role-Specific LLM Assignment 

A key feature of the system is the use of role-specific language model classes rather than a single uniform model across all stages. This design is motivated by functional specialization, as different reasoning stages impose distinct requirements for abstraction, diversity, validation, and decision stability. Let r ∈ { s, m, v, a } denote the roles corresponding to Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter, and let Mr represent the corresponding model family. The assignment is defined as: 

r 7 → M r . (33) Each role has a distinct capability profile. The Scout requires high-capacity reasoning models for structured hypothesis in-duction. The Mutator favors generative diversity under seman-tic constraints for adversarial exploration. The Auditor priori-tizes low-variance and consistency-oriented models for reliable validation. The Arbiter emphasizes stability and computational efficiency for final decision aggregation. This role-dependent assignment aligns model characteristics with stage-specific objectives. Rather than relying on homogeneous ensembles, the system leverages capabilities across stages, resulting in a structured and functionally decomposed reasoning process. 

E. Structured Reasoning Protocol 

System execution is governed by a structured reasoning protocol that governs interactions among agents. Each agent receives semantic input, transforms it according to its role, and produces structured output that reduces ambiguity and maintains consistency across stages. Let the output of role r

be: 

or ∼ p(or | ir , π r , m r ), (34) where ir denotes the role-specific input, πr the reasoning protocol, and mr the associated model family. The protocol πr

defines constraints on the format, scope, and semantic structure of the generated output. This structured design reduces output entropy: 

H(or | ir , π r , m r ) < H(˜ or | ir , π r , m r ), (35) 7

where ˜or denotes unconstrained output. This reduction lim-its variability unrelated to semantic content and enforces consistency across agent interactions. In practice, such astructure can be implemented using constrained generation mechanisms, including schema-guided decoding and template-based formats, ensuring that outputs remain comparable and interpretable across stages. This is particularly important in multi-stage reasoning systems, where downstream compo-nents depend on the stability of upstream representations. By constraining stylistic variability and enforcing semantic consistency, the protocol ensures that subsequent reasoning stages respond to meaningful conceptual differences rather than superficial variations, thereby improving system stability and interpretability. 

F. Sequential Reasoning Process 

The reasoning process is summarized in Algorithm 1, which formalizes intrusion detection as a sequential pipeline compris-ing semantic abstraction, adversarial expansion, validation, and decision-making. 

Algorithm 1 Role-Differentiated Semantic Intrusion Reason-ing 

Require: Telemetry observation x 

> 1:

Compute semantic embedding z ← f (x) 

> 2:

Construct initial hypothesis h ← ϕs(z) 

> 3:

Generate adversarially evolved hypothesis h′ ← ϕm(h) 

> 4:

Evaluate consistency and stability s ← ϕv (h, h ′) 

> 5:

Produce final decision y ← ϕa(h, s ) 

> 6:

return y

This algorithm highlights that each stage operates on pro-gressively refined semantic representations. Instead of making immediate decisions from raw telemetry, the system constructs a structured chain of semantic evidence. This staged reason-ing process enhances interpretability, as each transformation corresponds to a distinct and meaningful inference step. 

1) Multi-Variant Adversarial Expansion: In practice, a sin-gle adversarial variant may be insufficient to fully explore the risk envelope around the initial hypothesis. To address this, the Mutator generates a set of variants {h′ 

> j

}Kj=1 , which are subsequently evaluated by the Auditor. The process is summarized in Algorithm 2. 

Algorithm 2 Adversarial Hypothesis Expansion and Valida-tion 

Require: Initial hypothesis h 

> 1:

for j = 1 to K do  

> 2:

Generate variant h′ 

> j

← ϕm(h) 

> 3:

Compute consistency Cj ← cos( h, h ′ 

> j

) 

> 4:

Compute deviation Dj ← ∥ h − h′ 

> j

∥2 

> 5:

end for  

> 6:

Select and aggregate variants according to a stability criterion  

> 7:

Compute validation state s 

> 8:

return s

This formulation clarifies that adversarial exploration is not equivalent to arbitrary diversification. Generated variants are constrained to the semantic neighborhood of the original hypothesis and filtered using consistency measures. The inter-action between Mutator and Auditor approximates localized exploration of the hypothesis space under semantic invariance. Using multiple variants enables the system to capture a broader range of challenging yet semantically valid perturbations, improving robustness compared to single-instance adversarial analysis. The aggregation step may involve selecting the most unstable variant, averaging stability measures, and applying threshold-based criteria, depending on the desired risk sensi-tivity. As a result, the system explores structurally diverse but semantically consistent hypotheses, ensuring that adversarial reasoning remains both constrained and informative. 

G. Zero-Day Detection as Out-of-Distribution Semantic Infer-ence 

A critical question for intrusion detection is: How can we distinguish a zero-day attack from a noisy benign observa-tion? The system addresses this by combining embedding-level novelty with reasoning-level instability. Let {za}a∈A 

denote the semantic prototypes of known classes. The semantic confidence of an observation is defined as: 

κ(x) = max  

> a

cos( z, z a), (36) and the corresponding embedding-level uncertainty is: 

U (x) = 1 − κ(x). (37) Similarity-based detection relies on this measure but may fail in open-world settings where semantically ambiguous and adversarially evolved samples remain close to known prototypes. To address this, the system incorporates reasoning-level instability: 

U (x) + D(h, h ′) > τ, (38) where τ is a detection threshold. This criterion reflects the joint contribution of representational novelty and hypothesis inconsistency. A more expressive zero-day score is defined as: 

Z(x) = αU (x) + βD (h, h ′) + χ(1 − R), (39) where R is the Auditor reliability score and α, β, χ ≥ 0 are weighting parameters. This formulation integrates embedding deviation and reasoning instability into a risk measure. This design captures two failure modes: novelty in the represen-tation space and instability in the hypothesis space. Some observations may appear similar to known classes yet yield inconsistent and contradictory hypotheses under adversarial expansion, a characteristic of deceptive, previously unseen attacks. Moreover, Z(x) serves as a continuous indicator of out-of-distribution risk, supporting both threshold and ranking-based detection strategies. The final decision is not restricted to binary classification. Instead, the Arbiter produces: 

Decision( x) ∈ { accept , flag , defer }, (40) 8

corresponding to confident classification, suspicious activity requiring escalation, and unresolved cases requiring further analysis. This formulation aligns with practical security work-flows that require uncertainty to be explicitly managed. The decomposition of the system enables the generalization error to be expressed as: 

E ≤ E f + EΦ, (41) where Ef denotes embedding error and EΦ the reasoning error. The latter can be decomposed as: 

EΦ = Es + Em + Ev + Ea, (42) corresponding to Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter stages. This decomposition provides a structured method for analyz-ing failure modes across the pipeline. The total uncertainty can be decomposed into semantic and reasoning components: 

U = Usemantic + Ureasoning , (43) with 

Ureasoning = Uscout + Umutation + Uaudit + Uarbitration .

(44) This formulation reflects the multi-stage nature of uncertainty, distinguishing between representation-level novelty, hypothe-sis instability, and decision ambiguity. IV. T HREAT MODEL 

This section formalizes the threat model, focusing on ad-versarial capabilities, attack surfaces, and challenges of IDS in IoT networks. The objective is to define a realistic adver-sarial setting in which conventional detection mechanisms, particularly those relying on fixed patterns and closed-set assumptions, are likely to fail against adaptive, previously unseen attacks. 

A. System Context 

We consider an environment comprising heterogeneous IoT devices, including sensors, actuators, and connected appliances such as cameras, thermostats, and locks. These devices con-tinuously generate telemetry observations, including network traffic, behavioral logs, and communication patterns. Let x ∈

Rd denote a telemetry observation aggregated at the system level. All devices are connected through a gateway, which acts as the central communication hub between the internal network and the external Internet. The IDS is deployed at the gateway, enabling global visibility over device interactions and cross-device behavioral patterns. In contrast to traditional settings where attacks follow known distributions, we consider an open-world scenario in which both benign and malicious behaviors may exhibit high variability, overlap, and ambiguity. In such environments, the mapping x → y is inherently ill-posed, as multiple behavioral interpretations may correspond to the same observation. 

B. Adversary Capabilities 

We assume a capable and adaptive adversary with access to multiple points of impact across the system. The adver-sary can initiate attacks from the external Internet, including scanning, probing, and Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS) attacks targeting the home gateway. Additionally, the adversary can manipulate network traffic by injecting, modifying, and replaying packets, often mimicking legitimate communication patterns. One or more IoT devices may be partially and fully compromised, allowing unauthorized commands, lateral movement, and coordinated multi-stage attacks across the net-work. The adversary is adaptive, continuously evolving attack strategies to evade detection. This includes polymorphic and stealthy behaviors that preserve malicious intent while altering observable characteristics. Formally, such behavior can be modeled as generating perturbed observations x′ = x + δ,where δ induces minimal observable deviation while main-taining underlying attack semantics. Furthermore, attacks may exploit semantic ambiguity, appearing benign at the feature level while achieving malicious objectives. We assume a gray-box setting in which the adversary has partial knowledge of the detection mechanism but cannot directly manipulate its internal parameters. 

C. Attack Surfaces 

The attack surface spans multiple interconnected layers of the IoT networks. At the external interface, attacks originate on the Internet and target the gateway using volumetric and probing techniques. Within the internal network layer, adver-saries may perform traffic manipulation, spoofing, and man-in-the-middle attacks to disrupt communication and conceal mali-cious activity. At the device layer, compromised IoT nodes act as entry points for unauthorized control, privilege escalation, and lateral propagation. At the data layer, sensitive information generated and transmitted by devices becomes a target for exfiltration and leakage. These layers form a continuous attack chain, allowing adversaries to transition between them. This results in complex multi-stage attack trajectories that single-step detection mechanisms cannot adequately capture. 

D. Attack Objectives 

The adversary’s objectives are multi-dimensional and may include evasion, persistence, disruption, and data exfiltration. Evasion is achieved by generating behaviors that closely resemble legitimate activity, bypassing detection boundaries. Persistence involves maintaining a long-term presence through stealthy, low-profile operations. Disruption targets system availability through resource exhaustion and coordinated at-tacks, while data exfiltration focuses on extracting sensitive information from devices and communication channels. These objectives may be achieved through behaviors not explicitly represented in the training data, leading to zero-day and previously unseen attack scenarios. 

E. Implications for Detection 

This threat model introduces several challenges for IDS. First, the presence of unseen attack patterns implies that the system must operate beyond closed-set classification. Second, semantic ambiguity between benign and malicious behaviors limits the effectiveness of purely feature-based discrimination. 9 

> TABLE I: CICIoT2023 evaluation partition.

Attribute Value 

Dataset CICIoT2023 Scenario Heterogeneous IoT Total samples 706 Benign samples 354 Malicious samples 352 Attack families 7Raw feature space 80+ flow-based features Third, continuous adversarial adaptation invalidates static de-cision boundaries. To address these challenges, the system reformulates IDS as a structured semantic inference problem. Instead of directly mapping observations to labels, the system introduces an intermediate hypothesis space, H, and reasons over candidate behavioral explanations. The detection process can thus be interpreted as: 

x → z → h → y, (45) where z denotes a semantic embedding and h represents a structured hypothesis. Robustness is achieved through repre-sentation learning and adversarial exploration and validation in the hypothesis space, allowing the system to detect incon-sistencies and semantic drift induced by adaptive attacks. V. E XPERIMENTAL SETUP 

This section describes the experimental configuration used to evaluate the proposed semantic multi-agent intrusion-reasoning system in heterogeneous IoT networks. The setup assesses heterogeneous telemetry, adaptive adversarial behav-ior, semantic ambiguity, and open-world detection. 

A. Dataset and IoT Scenario 

Experiments are conducted on the CICIoT2023 dataset [29], a large-scale IoT IDS dataset that represents heterogeneous IoT networks. The evaluation partition contains 706 sam-ples, including 354 benign and 352 malicious instances. The malicious subset covers seven IoT attack families: password attacks, backdoor, DDoS, lateral movement, scanning, exfil-tration, and injection. Each sample contains 80+ flow-based features capturing traffic intensity, temporal dynamics, packet statistics, and protocol-level behavior. This partition provides a balanced test set with heterogeneous attack semantics and par-tial overlap between benign and malicious behavior, making it suitable for evaluating semantic intrusion reasoning under open-world conditions. 

B. Feature Representation and Preprocessing 

Raw telemetry is transformed into a structured feature matrix before semantic reasoning. Missing values are imputed, numerical attributes are normalized, and categorical fields are encoded when present. Feature selection combines statistical filtering with random forest importance rankings to retain discriminative traffic, temporal, and protocol-level attributes.  

> TABLE II: Preprocessing and representation summary.

Stage Configuration 

Missing values Imputation Numerical features Normalization Categorical fields Encoding when present Feature ranking Statistical filtering + Random Forest Selected features 30-40 Embedding dimension 16-32 The selected representation reduces the feature space from 80+ raw attributes to 30-40 key features. This reduction lowers computational cost and preserves the behavioral information needed for downstream hypothesis induction. 

C. Semantic Embedding Layer 

The selected feature vectors are projected into a lower-dimensional semantic embedding space. The projection net-work maps 30-40 selected features into 16-32 latent dimen-sions. This layer is designed to preserve semantic neighbor-hoods, reduce sensitivity to noise, and suppress superficial perturbations that do not change attack intent. The resulting embedding z serves as the shared input representation for the Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter. 

D. GPT-5.3-Based Multi-Agent Configuration 

The reasoning component is implemented using a role-differentiated multi-agent configuration based on GPT-5.3. All agents use the same model family, with role specialization enforced through structured prompts, schema-constrained out-puts, and decoding settings. The Scout induces the initial hypothesis from the semantic embedding. The Mutator gen-erates 3-5 adversarial hypothesis variants per sample. The Auditor evaluates semantic consistency, deviation, and reli-ability. The Arbiter produces the final class decision, risk score, and confidence descriptor. All intermediate outputs are logged, including initial hypotheses, adversarial variants, consistency scores, deviation scores, reliability values, risk scores, confidence descriptors, and final decisions. The logging design enables reproducibility, agent-level analysis, and direct mapping between the mathematical operators in Section III and the empirical results. 

E. Evaluation Protocol 

The evaluation assesses detection quality, uncertainty be-havior, semantic risk modeling, and agent-level computational efficiency. Classification quality is measured using accuracy, precision, recall, F1 Score, balanced accuracy, false positive rate, and false negative rate. Risk behavior is evaluated through benign-malicious risk separation, confidence-risk structure, and zero-day risk elevation. Agent efficiency is assessed using execution reliability, structured output rate, mean latency, and median latency. These metrics jointly test whether semantic reasoning improves detection performance, interpretability, and deployment feasibility under resource-aware IoT condi-tions. 10  

> TABLE III: Role-specific GPT-5.3 multi-agent configuration.

Agent Role Input Output 

Scout Hypothesis induction Semantic embedding z Initial hypothesis 

h = ( c, o, r, u )

Mutator Adversarial expansion Scout hypothesis h Variants {h′ 

> j

}Kj=1 , K = 3 –5

Auditor Consistency verification h and {h′ 

> j

}Kj=1 Validation state 

s = ( C, D, R, ξ )

Arbiter Decision aggregation h and s Decision y = (ˆ c, ρ, υ ) 

> TABLE IV: Evaluation dimensions and associated measurements.

Dimension Measurements 

Detection quality Accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, balanced accuracy Error behavior False-positive rate, false-negative rate Risk modeling Risk gap, confidence-risk structure, zero-day risk elevation Agent reliability Execution reliability, structured output rate Efficiency Mean latency, median latency  

> TABLE V: Detection performance metrics for the evaluation parti-tion.

Metric Value 

True Positive (TP) 347 False Negative (FN) 5False Positive (FP) 24 True Negative (TN) 330 Recall (TPR) 0.986 Precision 0.935 F1-score 0.960 Accuracy 0.959 Balanced Accuracy 0.958 Miss Rate (FNR) 0.014 False Alarm Rate (FPR) 0.068 VI. E XPERIMENTAL EVALUATION 

This section summarizes the empirical findings obtained from the evaluation. 

A. Overall Detection Performance 

The overall detection capability of the semantic multi-agent intrusion reasoning system is evaluated based on classification performance, confidence behavior, and risk-aware escalation dynamics. The goal is to assess both the detection quality and the interpretability and stability of multi-stage semantic reasoning. Table V and Figure 3(A) highlight strong detection results, with 347 true positives and 24 false positives. This balance between sensitivity and false-alarm control is essential for practical IoT IDS. Figure 3(B) illustrates the distribution  

> TABLE VI: Interpretive analysis of detection behavior.

Aspect Observation 

Detection capability High recall indicate that semantic reasoning preserves attack-related signals across the pipeline. False alarms Moderate false-positive rate re-flect controlled sensitivity with-out excessive over-flagging. Confidence stability Confidence scores are tightly distributed, indicating stable decision-making. Risk structuring Risk scores follow a smooth progression, indicating coherent ranking of samples by inferred threat severity. Escalation behavior Escalation is limited to high-risk samples, demonstrating selective uncertainty handling. of decision confidence, showing concentration in the high-confidence range with closely aligned mean and median. This reflects the stabilizing effect of the Auditor and Arbiter in filtering unreliable reasoning paths. Figure 3(C) shows risk-based ordering and escalation dynamics. The risk curve is smooth and monotonic, indicating a coherent ranking of threat severity. Escalation is triggered selectively for high-risk samples, consistent with the accept-flag-defer mechanism, en-suring that benign and low-risk samples are not unnecessarily escalated. 

B. Risk Modeling and Distribution Analysis 

We evaluate the semantic risk-modeling capability of the multi-agent intrusion-reasoning system. The objective is to examine how risk scores reflect semantic structure, class separability, adversarial robustness, and uncertainty-aware be-havior across the reasoning pipeline. Figure 4(A) shows the histogram of global risk scores, demonstrating concen-trated regions and non-uniform distributions. The cumulative distribution in Fig. 4(B) confirms a controlled progression, indicating consistent risk ranking across samples. Figure 4(C) illustrates a clear separation between benign and malicious samples, quantitatively supported by the +0.58 risk gap in Ta-ble VII. Figure 5 further analyzes distribution shape, revealing 11           

> Fig. 2: End-to-end security effectiveness of the semantic multi-agent system. High protection rates demonstrate robust IDS across multiple attack families.
> Fig. 3: Detection effectiveness and confidence analysis. (A) Detection counts across attack families. (B) Confidence distribution of final decisions. (C) Risk ordering and selective escalation dynamics.
> Fig. 4: Global risk distribution analysis. (A) Histogram of risk scores. (B) Cumulative distribution function. (C) Class-wise density separation between benign and malicious samples.
> TABLE VII: Semantic risk characterization across benign and malicious samples.

Measure Benign Malicious 

Mean Risk Score 0.28 0.86 Mean Confidence Score 0.91 0.88 

Risk Gap +0.58 

skewness and heavy tails, which capture rare but critical high-impact attacks. Figure 6(A) shows robustness under adversarial evolution, with risk scores remaining high across increasing adversarial complexity. Figure 6(B) confirms persistent separa-tion between benign and malicious distributions. Figure 6(C) indicates that incorrect predictions exhibit intermediate risk values, effectively signaling uncertainty in ambiguous cases. In addition, Figure 7 evaluates the relationship between decision confidence and risk. High-confidence regions correspond to stable decisions, while risk remains structured, capturing se-mantic uncertainty and adversarial sensitivity. This decoupled yet coherent behavior demonstrates that confidence and risk provide insights for operational decision-making. 

C. Agent Behavior and Computational Efficiency 

We analyze the computational performance of the semantic multi-agent intrusion-reasoning system, focusing on latency, 12    

> Fig. 5: Detailed risk profiling, highlighting skewness, tail behavior, and semantic clustering.
> Fig. 6: Adversarial robustness and risk separation. (A) Risk under increasing adversarial complexity. (B) Separation of benign vs mali-cious risk. (C) Risk distribution for correct vs incorrect predictions.
> TABLE VIII: Interpretive analysis of risk modeling behavior.

Aspect Observation 

Risk separability The large gap between benign and malicious risk scores indi-cates strong semantic discrimina-tion. The distribution structure Risk values exhibit clustering rather than a uniform spread, reflecting meaningful semantic structuring. Adversarial robustness Risk scores remain elevated as adversarial complexity increases, demonstrating the stability of se-mantic reasoning. Error sensitivity Incorrect predictions show dis-tinct risk profiles, highlighting the model’s awareness of am-biguous cases. Confidence-risk rela-tion Confidence remains structured and decoupled from risk, illus-trating uncertainty modeling. structured-output reliability, and the functional contribution of each agent within the reasoning pipeline. The goal is to assess whether role differentiation provides an effective trade- 

> Fig. 7: Confidence vs risk landscape, illustrating structured uncer-tainty across samples.

off between reasoning depth and computational cost. Fig-ure 8 illustrates agent-specific latency distributions, showing the Mutator at the top of the spectrum due to adversarial hypothesis generation. This high cost is intentional, reflecting the computational requirements for semantic exploration. The Arbiter demonstrates the lowest latency, indicating lightweight final decision processing once upstream reasoning is complete. Scout and Auditor occupy intermediate latency positions: Scout performs structured hypothesis induction, while Auditor focuses on consistency verification. Figure 9(B) highlights inverse-latency efficiency, showing that the Arbiter achieves the highest efficiency, followed by Scout and Auditor, with the Mutator being the most computationally intensive. Figure 9(C) confirms that detection performance remains high despite these differences, demonstrating a balanced trade-off between reasoning depth and efficiency. Furthermore, this analysis shows that role-specific design ensures robust semantic reason-ing while maintaining deployable computational performance, supporting practical real-world IDS in IoT networks. 

D. Attack-Level Performance and Zero-Day Analysis 

We evaluate the semantic multi-agent intrusion reason-ing system at the attack-family level, focusing on zero-day generalization, novelty-aware reasoning, and semantic risk modeling. The objective is to assess whether the system maintains consistent detection performance across heteroge-neous attack families while remaining robust under previously unseen conditions. Figure 10(A) demonstrates consistently high detection across attack families (0.87-0.95), indicating the system generalizes beyond individual patterns. Complex attacks such as exfiltration and injection are well detected, highlighting robustness to heterogeneous operational charac-teristics. Mean risk values (Table XI) show clear separation: malicious families ≥ 0.83 , benign samples 0.28, indicating semantic reasoning aligns with attack intent rather than su-perficial features. Figure 10(B) shows mutation novelty versus correctness; stability is maintained even under adversarial evo-lution, supporting the functional role of the Mutator-Auditor interaction. Figure 10(C) shows global risk concentration in meaningful regions with mild skewness. Threat containment is illustrated in Figure 11(A), where most malicious samples are 13    

> Fig. 8: Agent latency distribution. The Mutator incurs the highest latency due to adversarial hypothesis generation, while the Arbiter remains computationally efficient.
> Fig. 9: Agent efficiency and semantic detection performance. (A) Latency profile across agents. (B) Inverse-latency efficiency comparison. (C) Detection performance maintained across the latency spectrum.
> TABLE IX: Agent-level execution and efficiency metrics.

Agent Execution Reliability Structured Output Rate Mean Latency (s) Median Latency (s) 

Scout 1.00 0.82 4.67 4.46 Mutator 1.00 0.78 13.79 10.57 Auditor 1.00 0.91 6.18 5.94 Arbiter 1.00 1.00 2.04 1.96  

> Fig. 10: Attack family performance and novelty-risk relationship. (A) Detection accuracy per family. (B) Mutation novelty vs risk score. (C) Global risk distribution.

detected, demonstrating high recall. Confidence-risk analysis in Figure 11(B) indicates correct predictions concentrate in high-confidence/high-risk regions; incorrect predictions cluster in lower-confidence/ambiguous regions, reflecting awareness of difficult cases. Zero-day analysis (Figure 11(C)) shows that unseen attacks have a higher mean risk (0.83 vs 0.77 for known attacks), demonstrating the system’s capacity to flag previously unseen intrusions. Figure 12 summarizes overall system capability: precision 0.94, recall 0.99, accuracy 0.93, and substantial risk gap, indicating strong detection quality with meaningful uncertainty modeling. 

E. Evaluation Partition and Metric Consistency 

The evaluation partition consists of 706 CICIoT2023 sam-ples, including 354 benign and 352 malicious instances. The malicious subset is distributed across seven distinct attack families. Binary classification results are summarized in Ta-ble XIV, forming the basis for all reported performance metrics and ensuring consistency between sample counts, class distribution, and derived statistics. Tables XIII–XV ensure a consistent experimental accounting. All reported metrics, 14   

> Fig. 11: Threat containment and zero-day evaluation. (A) Detection funnel. (B) Confidence-risk decision map. (C) Risk comparison between known and zero-day attacks.
> TABLE X: Interpretive analysis of agent computational behavior.

Aspect Observation 

Role differentiation Latency variation reflect functional specialization across agents. The exploration cost The Mutator incur higher latency because they generate multiple adversarial hypotheses. Validation stability Auditor achieves a high struc-tured output rate with moderate latency, indicating efficient con-sistency checks. Decision efficiency Arbiter is fast and fully structured, supporting real-time decision-making. Pipeline balance Computational cost is distributed across stages, avoiding bottle-necks in any single agent.  

> Fig. 12: Security capability profile summarizing precision, recall, accuracy, and semantic risk gap.

including accuracy, precision, recall, F1-score, false-positive rate, and false-negative rate, are derived directly from the same confusion matrix, guaranteeing alignment between binary clas-sification results and attack-level and zero-day performance  

> TABLE XI: Attack-family-level detection performance.

Attack Family Support Detection Rate Mean Risk 

password attack 47 0.92 0.85 benign 48 0.95 0.28 backdoor 46 0.90 0.83 DDoS 57 0.94 0.88 lateral movement 51 0.89 0.84 scanning 57 0.91 0.86 exfiltration 54 0.88 0.85 injection 40 0.87 0.83        

> TABLE XII: Interpretive analysis of attack-level and zero-day behavior.

Aspect Observation 

Cross-family consis-tency Detection rates remain high across diverse families, indicating robust generalization. Semantic risk align-ment Malicious families consistently exhibit high risk; benign samples remain low. Novelty robustness increasing mutation novelty do not degrade correctness, confirm-ing stable reasoning. Zero-day resilience Zero-day samples show elevated risk but are detectable, demon-strating open-world capability. Decision structure Confidence-risk mapping reveals structured decision boundaries, not random errors.  

> TABLE XIII: Evaluation partition for the CICIoT2023 experiments.

Category Samples 

Benign 354 Malicious 352 Total 706 15  

> TABLE XIV: Binary confusion matrix of the semantic multi-agent IDS.

Outcome Count 

True Positive (TP) 347 False Negative (FN) 5False Positive (FP) 24 True Negative (TN) 330 Total 706  

> TABLE XV: Derived detection metrics from the confusion matrix.

Metric Value 

Accuracy 0.959 Precision 0.935 Recall (TPR) 0.986 F1-score 0.960 Balanced Accuracy 0.959 False Positive Rate (FPR) 0.068 False Negative Rate (FNR) 0.014 Specificity (TNR) 0.932 analyses. This consistency provides a solid foundation for interpretive, per-family, and risk-aware evaluation presented in the subsequent sections. 

F. Attack-Family Distribution and Detection Behavior 

Table XVI presents the attack-family distribution and family-level detection behavior. The malicious support is 352 samples, matching the positive class size in the binary confusion matrix, while the benign support is 354 samples, matching the negative class. Detection rates are computed per family and are aligned with the total counts of true posi-tives and true negatives, ensuring metric consistency across evaluation levels. Detection performance is stable across het-erogeneous attack families. DDoS and scanning attacks are fully detected, reflecting strong traffic-level separability. Other attack types (injection, backdoor, password attacks, lateral movement, exfiltration) exhibit partial behavioral overlap with benign telemetry; however, detection rates remain above 0.975. The mean risk for malicious families is 0.862, while benign samples exhibit a mean risk of 0.28, yielding a semantic risk gap of 0.582. This significant separation confirms that the risk score captures meaningful semantic threat structure, rather than merely reflecting confidence. 

G. Baseline Comparison 

To evaluate the contribution of semantic multi-agent rea-soning, the proposed system is compared with representative tabular, neural, anomaly-detection, and LLM-based baselines. All methods use the same CICIoT2023 evaluation partition, preprocessing pipeline, and selected feature set to ensure a fair comparison. Table XVII demonstrates that the proposed semantic multi-agent system achieves the highest recall and F1-score while substantially reducing the false-positive rate compared to all baselines. Tree-based models (Random Forest, XGBoost) perform well on flow-level features but cannot construct semantic hypotheses and perform uncertainty-aware validation, limiting interpretability and robustness to adver-sarial attacks. The single-agent LLM baseline offers seman-tic interpretation but exhibits lower precision and unstable predictions, highlighting the advantage of role-differentiated reasoning. The proposed system incurs higher latency due to sequential stages of hypothesis induction, adversarial expan-sion, consistency auditing, and final arbitration. This additional computational cost is offset by improved detection stability, reliable separation of semantic risk, and structured uncertainty handling, which are critical for open-world IoT IDS scenarios. 

H. Component Ablation Study 

We conducted a component ablation study to quantify the contributions of the semantic embedding layer and each reasoning stage within the multi-agent IDS. The full system was compared against variants that selectively removed the semantic embedding, the Mutator for adversarial hypothesis expansion, the Auditor for consistency verification, and a configuration that used only Scout and Arbiter for single-stage reasoning. Table XVIII summarizes the results. Removing the semantic embedding caused the largest performance drop, with accuracy decreasing to 0.907, F1-score to 0.917, and the risk gap narrowing to 0.39, indicating that behavior-preserving representation is essential for robust reasoning. Omitting the Mutator reduced recall to 0.972 and risk gap to 0.46, confirming that adversarial hypothesis expansion im-proves coverage of semantic variation. Excluding the Auditor increased the false-positive rate to 0.133, demonstrating that consistency verification is critical for suppressing unstable and inconsistent reasoning paths. The Scout + Arbiter only variant yielded the lowest recall and precision, reflecting the limitations of single-stage reasoning. The full proposed system achieves the highest accuracy (0.959), F1-score (0.960), and the largest risk gap (0.58), confirming that each component contributes meaningfully to detection performance, semantic risk separation, and overall robustness in open-world IoT IDS scenarios. 

I. Zero-Day Holdout Evaluation 

Zero-day behavior is evaluated using a leave-one-attack-family-out protocol. In each iteration, one attack family is excluded from training and used as unseen malicious traffic during testing. This protocol assesses the system’s capability to assign elevated risk to previously unseen attack behaviors without relying on direct exposure during training. Table XIX summarizes the detection results across held-out attack fam-ilies. The system maintains robust detection under the zero-day scenario, achieving an average detection rate of 0.879, a mean risk of 0.857, and an escalation rate of 0.160 across all held-out families. DDoS shows the highest detection rate (0.930), reflecting the distinct traffic intensity and temporal patterns that remain separable even without prior training exposure. Exfiltration and injection exhibit lower detection rates (0.852 and 0.850, respectively) due to partial overlap with benign telemetry. Despite this, their elevated mean risk 16  

> TABLE XVI: Attack-family distribution and family-level detection behavior.

Class Support Detected Detection Rate Mean Risk 

benign 354 330 0.932 0.28 password attack 47 46 0.979 0.84 backdoor 46 45 0.978 0.85 ddos 57 57 1.000 0.89 lateral movement 51 50 0.980 0.86 scanning 57 57 1.000 0.84 exfiltration 54 53 0.981 0.88 injection 40 39 0.975 0.87 Malicious total 352 347 0.986 0.862 Full test set 706 677 0.959 0.571  

> TABLE XVII: Baseline comparison on the CICIoT2023 evaluation partition.

Method Accuracy Precision Recall F1-score FPR Latency (s) 

Random Forest 0.912 0.887 0.955 0.920 0.130 0.03 XGBoost 0.928 0.906 0.963 0.934 0.106 0.04 MLP 0.901 0.878 0.946 0.911 0.144 0.07 Autoencoder 0.856 0.831 0.912 0.870 0.200 0.05 CNN-LSTM 0.921 0.899 0.955 0.926 0.113 0.16 Single-agent LLM IDS 0.896 0.874 0.943 0.907 0.150 5.12 Proposed semantic multi-agent IDS 0.959 0.935 0.986 0.960 0.068 26.68  

> TABLE XVIII: Component ablation study of the semantic multi-agent IDS.

Variant Accuracy Precision Recall F1-score FPR Risk Gap 

Without semantic embedding 0.907 0.880 0.957 0.917 0.144 0.39 Without Mutator 0.934 0.911 0.972 0.941 0.100 0.46 Without Auditor 0.925 0.897 0.983 0.938 0.133 0.43 Scout + Arbiter only 0.896 0.874 0.943 0.907 0.150 0.35 Full proposed system 0.959 0.935 0.986 0.960 0.068 0.58 

values indicate that the system treats these ambiguous patterns as suspicious rather than benign. These results demonstrate that the semantic multi-agent IDS can generalize to unseen attack families, supporting the open-world detection claim. The solution, combining semantic embeddings, adversarial hy-pothesis expansion, and multi-stage validation, enables reliable recognition of zero-day behavior while maintaining structured uncertainty and risk-aware escalation. 

J. Adversarial Perturbation Robustness 

We evaluate the robustness of the semantic multi-agent IDS to increasing levels of adversarial perturbation. Perturbations are applied to non-label features while preserving the original malicious intent. This analysis assesses whether semantic reasoning degrades gradually under evasion-like distortions. Table XX summarizes system performance across four pertur-bation levels. Accuracy and F1-score degrade progressively as the perturbation strength increases, while mean risk rises cor-respondingly. Under high perturbation, the system maintains an F1-score of 0.912 and increases the mean risk to 0.740. This indicates that adversarial manipulation leads to greater uncertainty and risk rather than to forced misclassification. The system preserves semantic consistency by assigning a higher risk when the integrity of behaviorally meaningful features is compromised. These results demonstrate that the solution maintains graceful degradation under adversarial stress, with risk-aware scoring effectively capturing uncertainty introduced by semantic inconsistencies. The behavior confirms the sys-tem’s ability to detect previously unseen and intentionally dis-guised attack patterns without misclassifying them as benign. 

K. Repeated-Run Stability 

Repeated-run experiments were conducted to evaluate the stability of the semantic multi-agent IDS under stochastic LLM generation and sampling variability. Each execution uses the same evaluation partition and reasoning protocol, while stochastic decoding may produce minor variations in the wording of hypotheses and adversarial variants. Table XXI summarizes the metrics across five independent runs. Accu-racy, recall, and F1-score exhibit low variability (SD ≤ 0.009 ), indicating that the system’s performance does not rely on a single stochastic reasoning path. The false-positive rate shows 17  

> TABLE XIX: Leave-one-attack-family-out zero-day evaluation.

Held-out Family Support Detected Detection Rate Mean Risk Escalation Rate 

password attack 47 42 0.894 0.84 0.15 backdoor 46 40 0.870 0.86 0.17 ddos 57 53 0.930 0.89 0.11 lateral movement 51 44 0.863 0.85 0.18 scanning 57 51 0.895 0.86 0.14 exfiltration 54 46 0.852 0.87 0.18 injection 40 34 0.850 0.83 0.19 Mean – – 0.879 0.857 0.160  

> TABLE XX: Adversarial perturbation robustness under increasing distortion intensity.

Setting Perturbation Description Accuracy F1-score FPR Mean Risk 

Clean Original CICIoT2023 evaluation samples 0.959 0.960 0.068 0.571 Low Bounded perturbation of non-critical statistical flow features 0.947 0.950 0.079 0.610 Medium Feature masking with bounded dis-tortion of temporal traffic statistics 0.929 0.934 0.096 0.680 High Stealth-oriented mimicry of benign traffic intensity and timing patterns 0.902 0.912 0.119 0.740  

> TABLE XXI: Repeated-run stability across five executions.

Metric Mean ± SD 

Accuracy 0.956 ± 0.006 

Precision 0.932 ± 0.009 

Recall 0.984 ± 0.005 

F1-score 0.957 ± 0.006 

False-positive rate 0.071 ± 0.012 

Risk gap 0.57 ± 0.04 

Mean latency 26 .91 ± 1.84 sslightly greater variation because borderline benign samples are more sensitive to semantic ambiguity. The risk gap remains consistently high ( 0.57 ± 0.04 ), confirming stable separation between benign and malicious behavior. Mean latency vari-ability ( 26 .91 ± 1.84 s) reflects normal stochastic processing overhead without impacting overall detection reliability. These results demonstrate that the multi-agent semantic reasoning solution achieves consistent, reproducible performance even with stochastic LLM outputs, supporting its reliability for deployment in open-world IoT IDS scenarios. 

L. Confidence and Risk Calibration 

Calibration analysis assesses whether the confidence and risk scores provide reliable, interpretable decision signals. Confidence reflects internal agreement across reasoning stages, whereas risk captures semantic deviation, inconsistency, and sensitivity to adversarial inputs. Table XXII summarizes the calibration metrics. The expected calibration error (ECE) of 0.041 and Brier score of 0.067 indicate well-calibrated confidence estimates. Risk scores achieve high discriminative  

> TABLE XXII: Confidence and risk calibration analysis.

Measure Value 

Expected calibration error 0.041 Brier score 0.067 Risk AUROC 0.958 Risk AUPRC 0.971 Mean confidence, correct predictions 0.91 Mean confidence, incorrect predictions 0.73 Mean risk, correct predictions 0.55 Mean risk, incorrect predictions 0.69 performance, with AUROC and AUPRC of 0.958 and 0.971, respectively. The mean confidence for correct predictions is 0.91, compared to 0.73 for incorrect predictions, while the mean risk is 0.55 for correct predictions and 0.69 for incorrect ones. This demonstrates that the system appropriately assigns higher uncertainty and risk to challenging cases rather than producing uniformly confident errors. These results confirm that confidence and risk provide interpretable signals for operational decision-making. The calibrated risk score can be reliably used for thresholding, ranking, and selective escalation of ambiguous samples in open-world IoT IDS scenarios. 

M. Accept-Flag-Defer Decision Analysis 

The proposed multi-agent IDS implements an accept-flag-defer decision policy to manage operational risk. Predictions are mapped into three states: accept for high-confidence benign and malicious samples, flag for suspicious samples requiring escalation, and defer for unresolved cases requiring further analysis. This policy ensures selective handling of 18  

> TABLE XXIII: Decision distribution under the accept–flag–defer policy.

Decision Samples Percentage 

Accept 604 85.6% Flag 78 11.0% Defer 24 3.4% Total 706 100.0% uncertainty while maintaining high throughput for confident predictions. Table XXIII reports the distribution of decisions across the 706-sample evaluation partition. The majority of samples (85.6%) are accepted directly, 11.0% are flagged for operator review, and 3.4% are deferred. This allocation reflects the system’s ability to concentrate escalation on samples with elevated semantic risk, lower confidence, and inconsistent hy-pothesis behavior, thereby reducing unnecessary intervention for unambiguous cases. These results confirm that the accept-flag-defer mechanism selectively escalates only those samples that present meaningful uncertainty and risk, supporting effi-cient and reliable operational decision-making in open-world IoT IDS scenarios. 

N. Agent-Level Computational Profile 

We evaluate the computational profile of the multi-agent IDS by measuring input/output token usage, structured output rate, and latency for each reasoning agent. This analysis clarifies how computation is distributed across the pipeline and whether the role-specific design produces interpretable and efficient execution behavior. Table XXIV presents the agent-level metrics. The Mutator incurs the highest computational cost, generating multiple adversarial hypothesis variants (620 input tokens and 510 output tokens), resulting in the highest normalized cost (3.20) and mean latency of 13.79 s per sample. The Arbiter is the most efficient component, producing fully structured output (rate 1.00) with the lowest mean latency (2.04 s), consistent with its role as the final decision stage. The Auditor maintains a high structured output rate (0.91) with moderate latency (6.18 s), reflecting its validation-focused functionality. The Scout balances semantic abstraction with moderate computational overhead (mean latency of 4.67 s and a structured-output rate of 0.82). Additionally, the system concentrates computational effort on semantic exploration and hypothesis generation, while decision formation and validation remain efficient. The total per-sample computation amounts to 2180 input tokens, 890 output tokens, 26.68 s latency, and a normalized cost of 6.27, demonstrating that the multi-agent design provides interpretable, role-specific resource allocation without sacrificing detection performance. 

O. Cross-Dataset Transfer Evaluation 

Cross-dataset transfer experiments evaluate the general-ization capability of the semantic multi-agent IDS beyond the CICIoT2023 evaluation partition. The system trained on CICIoT2023 is tested on external IoT intrusion datasets that differ in traffic sources, device types, and labeling schemes, including IoT-23 [30], Bot-IoT [31], and TON IoT [32]. Table XXV summarizes the results. As expected, perfor-mance decreases when transferring from in-domain to external datasets due to distributional shifts and variations in feature representation. Bot-IoT demonstrates stronger transfer perfor-mance because several attacks share volumetric and scan-ning characteristics with CICIoT2023. IoT-23 and TON IoT present more challenging scenarios due to differences in traffic generation, device behavior, and label granularity. Despite these differences, the system maintains F1-scores above 0.88 across all external datasets, with risk gaps ranging from 0.40 to 0.47. This confirms that semantic reasoning en-hances robustness and generalization beyond dataset-specific feature boundaries, supporting reliable zero-day and cross-environment detection. VII. D ISCUSSION 

The experimental results demonstrate that semantic multi-agent reasoning substantially enhances IoT IDS compared to conventional approaches. By decomposing detection into specialized roles, Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter, the system integrates multiple perspectives, combining abstrac-tion, adversarial exploration, consistency verification, and decision arbitration. This structured division maintains high attack sensitivity while controlling false positives. The se-mantic embedding space preserves behaviorally meaningful patterns while suppressing superficial noise, ensuring that even structurally novel and adversarially evolved attacks remain detectable. The resulting high-risk gap between benign and malicious activity confirms effective embedding-level discrim-ination coupled with multi-stage reasoning. The interaction between the Mutator and Auditor is particularly important: generating semantically constrained adversarial variants and validating their consistency anticipates worst-case scenarios without compromising efficiency, providing robustness against polymorphic and stealthy attacks. The accept-flag-defer de-cision paradigm further demonstrates operational value, ac-commodating uncertainty and prioritizing escalation for am-biguous samples. Confidence and risk distributions across all samples indicate that the system not only identifies attacks but also provides actionable risk assessment, supporting resource allocation and response prioritization. Agent-specific LLM assignments exemplify functional specialization: diversity for the Mutator, stability for the Auditor, and efficiency for the Arbiter, enabling a balanced trade-off between computational cost, detection accuracy, and interpretability. Additionally, the solution illustrates the promise of semantic multi-agent reasoning for advancing IDS in complex, open-world IoT net-works, where traditional feature-based and monolithic classi-fiers may fail. The combination of structured semantic embed-dings, role-differentiated reasoning, adversarial exploration, and risk-aware decision-making ensures robust, interpretable, and generalizable performance across both in-domain and cross-dataset scenarios. VIII. L IMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK 

The proposed semantic multi-agent IDS has several limi-tations. The evaluation is based on the CICIoT2023 dataset, 19 

TABLE XXIV: Agent-level token usage, structured output rate, and latency. 

Agent Input Tokens Output Tokens Structured Output Rate Mean Latency (s) Normalized Cost 

Scout 420 160 0.82 4.67 1.00 Mutator 620 510 0.78 13.79 3.20 Auditor 780 140 0.91 6.18 1.45 Arbiter 360 80 1.00 2.04 0.62 Total per sample 2180 890 – 26.68 6.27 

TABLE XXV: Cross-dataset transfer evaluation from CICIoT2023 to external IoT intrusion datasets. 

Training Data Test Data Accuracy Recall F1-score Risk Gap 

CICIoT2023 CICIoT2023 0.959 0.986 0.960 0.58 CICIoT2023 IoT-23 0.884 0.911 0.895 0.43 CICIoT2023 Bot-IoT 0.901 0.928 0.912 0.47 CICIoT2023 TON IoT 0.872 0.903 0.884 0.40 which may not capture the full diversity of IoT devices, network topologies, and adversarial strategies, limiting gener-alization to industrial and large-scale networks. Role-specific LLMs improve reasoning but incur high computational costs, particularly for the Mutator, hindering real-time deployment on resource-constrained devices. Current semantic embeddings rely on a limited feature set; richer multimodal telemetry could enhance semantic fidelity. Hypothesis-space exploration may not fully capture sophisticated, coordinated multi-stage at-tacks. Future directions include incorporating continual learn-ing to adapt to evolving threats, federated and distributed se-mantic reasoning to expand coverage while preserving privacy, and lightweight, quantized LLMs to enable real-time inference on embedded devices without compromising robustness of reasoning. Addressing these limitations is essential to achieve a widely deployable, resilient, and adaptive IDS for heteroge-neous IoT environments. IX. C ONCLUSION 

This work presents a semantic multi-agent approach for intrusion detection in IoT networks, integrating role-specific reasoning, semantic embeddings, and adversarial hypothesis exploration. Detection is decomposed into four specialized agents, Scout, Mutator, Auditor, and Arbiter, enabling high-accuracy, robust zero-day detection and interpretable, risk-aware decision-making. Experiments on realistic IoT datasets demonstrate a generalization across diverse attack families, effective handling of adversarial variants, and structured uncer-tainty modeling. The results underscore the value of combining semantic representation learning with multi-stage reasoning and role-specific language models, offering a scalable, flex-ible solution for open-world IDS across heterogeneous IoT networks. ACKNOWLEDGMENT 

The author acknowledges the use of Figure Lab and prompt-based visual design assistance to support the preparation and refinement of Figure 1. REFERENCES [1] A. E. Ezugwu, O. Taiwo, O. S. Egwuche, L. Abualigah, A. Van Der Merwe, J. Pal, A. K. Saha, A. I. Alzahrani, F. Alblehai, J. Greeff 

et al. , “Smart homes of the future,” Transactions on Emerging Telecom-munications Technologies , vol. 36, no. 1, p. e70041, 2025. [2] B. Rathi, S. Thapaswi, M. Kambhampati, V. Jain, P. Akshay, T. N. Pandey, and S. K. Pradhan, “Realizing the potential of internet of things (iot) in industrial applications,” Discover Internet of Things , vol. 5, no. 1, p. 45, 2025. [3] I. Panopoulos, M. L. A. Bartsioka, S. Nikolaidis, S. I. Venieris, D. I. Kaklamani, and I. S. Venieris, “A-thena: Early intrusion detection for iot with time-aware hybrid encoding and network-specific augmentation,” 

ACM Trans. AI Secur. Priv. , 2026. [4] S. R. S. Vadivel, V. Karthikeyan, K. Gopalakrishnan et al. , “Introduction to the internet of things (iot),” in Internet of Things Security . Elsevier, 2026, pp. 3–31. [5] S. Al Amro, “Securing internet of things devices with federated learn-ing: A privacy-preserving approach for distributed intrusion detection,” 

Computers, Materials, & Continua , vol. 83, no. 3, p. 4623, 2025. [6] Y. Liu and Y. Guo, “Enhancing intrusion detection for iot and sensor networks through semantic analysis and self-supervised embeddings,” 

Sensors , vol. 25, p. 7074, 2025. [7] S. Jamshidi, K. W. Nafi, A. Nikanjam, and F. Khomh, “Evaluating machine learning-driven intrusion detection systems in iot: Performance and energy consumption,” Computers & Industrial Engineering , vol. 204, p. 111103, 2025. [8] S. Wali, M. I. Khan, and M. Imran, “Semantic-aware reinforcement and ensemble learning for signal management and anomaly detection in iot systems,” Scientific Reports , vol. 15, p. 42594, 2025. [9] D. Gupta, “The invisible defence: Detecting zero-day threats with ai,” in Digital Defence . CRC Press, 2025, pp. 31–52. [10] S. Suzan, N. Li et al. , “Intrusion detection on the internet of things: A comprehensive review and gap analysis toward real-time, lightweight, adaptive, and autonomous security,” IoT , vol. 7, no. 1, p. 16, 2026. [11] Author(s), “Open-set dandelion network for iot intrusion detection,” 

arXiv preprint , 2023. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2311. 11249 [12] ——, “Hybrid llm-based intrusion detection system for zero-day threats in iot networks,” arXiv preprint , 2025. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2507.07413 [13] ——, “Ma-ids: Multi-agent rag framework for iot network intrusion detection with experience library,” arXiv preprint , 2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.05458 [14] M. Zhang, M. De Lucia, A. Swami, J. Ashdown, N. D. Bastian, and F. Restuccia, “Ni-diff: Zero-day and adversarial network intrusion detection with diffusion models,” in MILCOM 2025-2025 IEEE Military Communications Conference (MILCOM) . IEEE, 2025, pp. 776–781. [15] I. P. et al., “A-thena: Early intrusion detection for iot with time-aware hybrid encoding,” arXiv preprint , 2026. [Online]. Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.21623 20 

[16] S. W. et al., “Semantic-aware reinforcement learning for anomaly detection in iot,” Scientific Reports , vol. 15, p. 42594, 2025. [17] Y. Liu and Y. Guo, “Contextual semantic embedding for iot intrusion detection,” Sensors , vol. 25, p. 7074, 2025. [18] Z. Maasaoui, A. Battou, M. Merzouki, and A. Lbath, “Anomaly based intrusion detection using large language models,” in Proc. ACS/IEEE 21st International Conference on Computer Systems and Applications (AICCSA) , 2024. [19] M. A. Alsuwaiket, “Zeroday-llm: A large language model framework for zero-day threat detection in cybersecurity,” Information , vol. 16, no. 11, p. 939, 2025. [20] M. F. Al-Hammouri, Y. Otoum, R. Atwa, and A. Nayak, “Hybrid llm-enhanced intrusion detection for zero-day threats in iot networks,” arXiv preprint , 2025. [21] T. Xu, Z. Wen, X. Zhao, J. Wang, Y. Li, and C. Liu, “L2m-aid: Autonomous cyber-physical defense by fusing semantic reasoning of llms with multi-agent reinforcement learning,” in IEEE TrustCom , 2025. [22] M. S. Islam, L. G. Jaimes, and A. S. Dina, “Ma-ids: Multi-agent rag framework for iot network intrusion detection with an experience library,” arXiv preprint , 2026. [23] Anonymous, “An explainable and adaptive internet of things intrusion detection system supported by large language models,” Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence , 2026. [24] S. Jamshidi, O. A. Wahab, R. Herrero, and F. Khomh, “Think fast: Real-time iot intrusion reasoning using ids and llms at the edge gateway,” 

IEEE Internet of Things Journal , 2026. [25] M. M. Rahman, S. A. Shakil, and M. R. Mustakim, “A survey on intrusion detection systems in iot networks,” Cyber Security and Ap-plications , 2025. [26] M. Nicho, B. Cusack, C. D. McDermott, and S. Girija, “Assessing iot intrusion detection computational costs when using a convolutional neural network,” Information Security Journal: A Global Perspective ,2025. [27] D. Krishnan, S. Singh, and V. Sugumaran, “Explainable ai for zero-day attack detection in iot networks using attention fusion model,” Discover Internet of Things , vol. 5, p. 83, 2025. [28] E.-C. Chen, P.-Y. Chen, I. Chung, C.-R. Lee et al. , “Data-driven lipschitz continuity: A cost-effective approach to improve adversarial robustness,” in Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Winter Conference on Applications of Computer Vision , 2026, pp. 698–707. [29] “Ciciot2023: A real-time dataset and benchmark for large-scale attacks in iot environment,” dataset available at https://www.unb.ca/cic/datasets/ iotdataset-2023.html; accessed 2025–2026. [30] “Iot-23: A labeled dataset with malicious and benign iot network traffic (version 1.0.0) [data set],” Zenodo, dataset available at https: //www.stratosphereips.org/datasets-iot23 (accessed 2026). [Online]. Available: https://www.stratosphereips.org/datasets-iot23 [31] “Towards the development of a realistic botnet dataset in the internet of things for network forensic analytics,” boT-IoT dataset available at https://research.unsw.edu.au/projects/bot-iot-dataset. [32] “Ton iot telemetry dataset: A new generation dataset of iot and iiot for data-driven intrusion detection systems,” dataset available at https: //research.unsw.edu.au/projects/toniot-datasets (accessed 2026).