Title: SkillResolve-Bench: Measuring and Resolving Same-Capability Ambiguity in Agent Skill Retrieval

URL Source: https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.10388v1

Published Time: Wed, 10 Jun 2026 00:36:12 GMT

Number of Pages: 18

Markdown Content:
# SkillResolve-Bench: Measuring and Resolving Same-Capability Ambiguity in Agent Skill Retrieval 

## Jiandong Ding Huawei Technologies Ltd. 

## dingjiandong2@huawei.com 

Abstract 

Agent skill libraries are becoming routable software assets: a retrieved skill can contribute instruc-tions, scripts, resource bindings, and execution assumptions to an agent. This makes skill retrieval more than broad relevance matching. A retriever can find the right capability family yet expose the wrong same-capability representative. We study this failure as same-capability execution-risk retrieval. Each query pairs a helpful skill with a query-specific risky sibling that shares the capability family but can lead execution toward a stale resource, missing precondition, or wrong procedure. We introduce SkillResolve-Bench 1.0, an auditable benchmark for this setting with 661 helpful/risky pairs, source-role and admission evidence, cue/leakage checks, query-disjoint splits, and a 7,982-candidate pool that in-cludes 6,660 public SkillRet candidates. The benchmark reports helpful ranking together with harmful sibling rate (HSR@K), the top-K exposure of the risky sibling. We also provide SkillResolve, a reference method that resolves active candidate families, scores query-conditioned utility from confusable library negatives and contract-profile cues, and selects one representative from each family before the final top-K list. Under the released family relation, SkillResolve reaches Recall@3 0.766 and NDCG@3 0.699 while keeping HSR@3=0. It improves over SkillRouter by 0.112 Recall@3 and 0.165 NDCG@3 while reducing HSR@3 from 0.693 to 0. Without representative selection, HSR@3 rises to 0.236 under the same scorer, identifying within-family representative choice as the mechanism that turns capability retrieval into safer procedural exposure. 

# 1 Introduction 

Skill libraries change what retrieval must guarantee for language-model agents. Modern platforms treat skills as loadable operational artifacts with instructions, scripts, resources, and metadata (Anthropic, 2025). Re-cent work has scaled this idea into routing, retrieval, benchmarking, workflow orchestration, graph-structured skill representations, and governance systems (Zhou et al., 2026b; Li et al., 2026a; Zheng et al., 2026; Cho et al., 2026; Su et al., 2026; Wang et al., 2026b; Lim et al., 2026; Blumenfeld and Webber, 2026; Liu et al., 2026b). The retrieval layer therefore decides which procedural context enters the agent before planning or execution. This selection problem is sharper than ordinary relevance retrieval. Curated skills can improve execution, but gains weaken under realistic retrieval from large public collections, and public skill audits find weak routing metadata, non-actionable bodies, reusable-artifact defects, and technical debt (Li et al., 2026a; Liu et al., 2026c; Ying et al., 2026; Zhang et al., 2026; Gao et al., 2026; Song et al., 2026). Recent skill-routing work further shows that top-K skill quality cannot be reduced to independent query–skill relevance because the retrieved skills must also be compatible as a query-conditioned set (Wang et al., 2026b). Security and governance studies add a second reason to treat skill retrieval as a trusted-use layer: loaded skill packages can affect planning, context, permissions, scripts, and local resources (Li et al., 2026b; Hou and Yang, 2026; Feng et al., 2026; Jin et al., 2026; Guo et al., 2026; Pan et al., 2026). The failure studied here appears when a library contains multiple skills from the same capability family. One skill may contain the current resource, precondition, or procedure needed by the task; a sibling may use the same domain vocabulary and procedure shape but point to a stale resource, skip a precondition, or apply the wrong check. A generic retriever can solve broad capability matching and still surface the wrong 1

> arXiv:2606.10388v1 [cs.IR] 9 Jun 2026

Figure 1: Same-capability execution-risk retrieval. As skill libraries grow, a query may retrieve close siblings from the same capability family. SkillResolve resolves candidate families, scores query-conditioned utility, and selects one representative before the final top-K list. representative. The risky skill is not an irrelevant distractor; it is a close semantic neighbor with a different execution consequence. Structured retrieval and skill-set compatibility work reach compatible conclusions from other directions: relevant bundles may still leave entry points, roles, checks, or avoidances implicit, and compatible top-K sets require supervision beyond independent relevance (Zeng et al., 2026; Wang et al., 2026b). This representative ambiguity is visible in public skill libraries. In a SkillRet audit using only public metadata, 4,716 of 4,997 queries have at least one non-gold skill in the gold skill’s domain/action/object family; across seven standard retrievers, a top-three list surfaces such a sibling for 47.3% of queries, and 36.6% contain both a gold skill and a strict same-family sibling. These siblings are not harmful labels. They show that, after a router finds the right capability family, it may still need to form the right representative competition. SkillResolve-Bench adds the execution-risk labels needed to evaluate that choice. We formalize this setting as same-capability execution-risk skill retrieval. For each query, the benchmark identifies a helpful skill and a query-specific execution-risk sibling, then evaluates retrieval under a larger public skill pool. The central metric is harmful sibling rate (HSR@K): whether the risky sibling appears in the final top-K. A good skill retriever should have high Recall@K and NDCG@K for the helpful skill while keeping HSR@K low. This evaluation differs from positive skill retrieval benchmarks such as SkillRet and SRA-Bench, whose native labels identify useful or gold skills but do not assign query-specific execution-risk siblings. It also differs from malicious skill detection and permission enforcement: SkillResolve measures the upstream retrieval-time decision of which same-capability representative is admitted to the context. We propose SkillResolve, a utility-aware retrieval method for this setting. Figure 1 summarizes the core decision made before execution. SkillResolve first resolves which candidates should compete as alternative representatives of an active capability, then scores each candidate with a query-conditioned utility model trained from admitted helpful skills and confusable library negatives. The utility model keeps ordinary retrieval signals and contract-profile cues for resource bindings, preconditions, API or temporal scope, output schema, and procedure indicators. The final selector keeps the highest-utility representative from each resolved family and ranks these representatives for the top-K list. The retrieval objective becomes a family-resolved utility competition before global top-K ranking. SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 makes this failure measurable as a reusable fixed-library retrieval task. It contains 661 helpful/risky sibling pairs, records source role and admission evidence, separates harmful-sibling labels from SkillRet library pressure, and releases hashes, query-disjoint splits, a fixed 7,982-candidate pool, and held-out outputs. Generic lexical, SkillRouter, and BGE reranking baselines retrieve relevant skills but expose risky siblings; Attribution-listwise suppresses them but loses helpful retrieval quality. SkillResolve 2reaches Recall@3 0.766, HSR@3=0, and NDCG@3 0.699, improving helpful retrieval over Attribution-listwise while both have HSR@3=0, and improving both retrieval and HSR over SkillRouter and BGE reranking. This paper makes three contributions: 

• We construct SkillResolve-Bench 1.0, an auditable benchmark for same-capability execution-risk skill retrieval. It pairs helpful skills with query-specific risky siblings, records source roles, admission evi-dence, risk taxonomy, cue checks, hashes, splits, and release files, and evaluates top-K exposure under public library pressure. 

• We introduce SkillResolve, a utility-aware retrieval method with a Capability Resolver, a query-conditioned Utility Scorer over retrieval and contract-profile cues, and a Representative Selector that exposes one selected skill per active family. 

• We show that SkillResolve improves helpful retrieval while suppressing risky siblings. Across 661 benchmark pairs and 7,982 candidate skills, SkillResolve reaches Recall@3 0.766, NDCG@3 0.699, and HSR@3=0; component and family-source analyses identify representative selection, confusable-negative utility learning, and capability resolution as the main sources of the recall–exposure tradeoff. 

# 2 Related Work 

Skill benchmarks and routing. Recent benchmarks make skill use a first-class agent problem: Skills-Bench measures execution gains from curated and generated skills (Li et al., 2026a), SkillRet evaluates retrieval over public libraries (Cho et al., 2026), and SRA-Bench separates retrieval, incorporation, and execution bottlenecks (Su et al., 2026). SkillRouter shows that full skill bodies carry signal beyond names and descriptions (Zheng et al., 2026), SkillSeek studies two-stage retrieval in an open-source agent stack (Yang, 2026), and R3-Skill frames skill retrieval as a query-conditioned top-K compatibility problem rather than independent document relevance (Wang et al., 2026b). Group-structured retrieval shows that flat rel-evant lists can hide entry points, roles, checks, and avoidances (Zeng et al., 2026). SkillResolve studies a complementary target after capability retrieval: choose the query-useful representative rather than a risky same-capability sibling. 

Open skill-library quality and governance. Public skill libraries are uneven software artifacts, not static text corpora. Realistic skill-use studies show that benefits degrade when agents must retrieve from large real-world collections rather than receive curated task-specific skills (Liu et al., 2026c). OpenSkillEval evaluates skill-augmented agents and community-contributed skills under dynamic task settings (Ying et al., 2026), and ecosystem analyses find reusable-artifact defects, missing routing guidance, and non-actionable skill bodies (Zhang et al., 2026; Gao et al., 2026). SkillOps frames persistent defects as skill technical debt (Song et al., 2026). Lifecycle systems make the same point temporally: SkillsVote, SkillOS, and MUSE-Autoskill treat skills as managed artifacts whose value depends on task, stage, and evidence (Liu et al., 2026b; Wan et al., 2026; Lin et al., 2026). SkillResolve studies the retrieval-time counterpart: which representative should be exposed now. 

Skill generation, evolution, and runtime interfaces. Trace2Skill and SkillAdaptor update skills from trajectories (Ni et al., 2026; Yu et al., 2026); other work studies verified synthesis, generation benchmarks, test-time synthesis, lifecycle memory, and compiled runtime interfaces (Ma et al., 2026; Zhou et al., 2026a; Wang et al., 2026a; Lin et al., 2026; Liu et al., 2026a; Xu et al., 2026; Ouyang et al., 2026; Meng et al., 2026). Declarative skill files and graph-structured skill representations show that skills can act as runtime workflow interfaces and schema-validated procedural graphs rather than plain retrieval documents (Lim et al., 2026; Blumenfeld and Webber, 2026). These methods improve, synthesize, compile, structure, or execute skills. SkillResolve assumes a fixed candidate library at inference time and studies query-level ranking under labels that distinguish helpful skills from risky siblings. 3Skill security and execution risk. Security work on agent skills studies threat taxonomies, malicious-skill triage, skill-level backdoors, skill-facing attack surfaces, and rewrite-stable auditing of untrusted skill packages (Li et al., 2026b; Hou and Yang, 2026; Feng et al., 2026; Jin et al., 2026; Lv et al., 2026). Mal-SkillBench adds runtime-verified malicious-skill ground truth spanning instruction and code behavior, while SkillGuard treats skills as permission-bearing executable artifacts governed through manifests, runtime ac-cess control, and audit signals (Guo et al., 2026; Pan et al., 2026). These studies make the trust boundary concrete: loaded skill content can affect planning, file access, scripts, and local resources. Rather than audit-ing malicious packages, SkillResolve targets the earlier retrieval decision where a candidate may be globally plausible yet harmful for the current query because it is the wrong same-capability representative. 

Reranking backbones. Modern dense and cross-encoder rerankers, including BGE models (Chen et al., 2024), provide strong semantic matching signals. In SkillResolve, they are recall-layer baselines: they can recover capability matches, but same-capability execution risk adds a later choice when helpful and risky siblings are both close to the query. SkillResolve separates that final decision into capability resolution and utility-conditioned representative selection. 

# 3 Problem and Method 

## 3.1 Task Setup 

The failure mode in this paper is not that a retriever misses the right broad capability. It is that the retriever finds a relevant capability family and then exposes the wrong member of that family. We model each query as a choice among skills in a larger library, where two skills can share task vocabulary and procedure shape but differ in their execution consequence. Formally, a benchmark collection is D = {(qi, C(qi), s + 

> i

, s − 

> i

, g ⋆)}ni=1 , where qi is a user query, C(qi) is its candidate pool, s+ 

> i

is the admitted helpful skill, s− 

> i

is the query-specific execution-risk sibling, and 

g⋆ : S → G is the released benchmark family relation. The helpful skill guides execution toward a verifier-consistent solution for the current query. The risk sibling belongs to the same capability family but encodes a stale resource, missing precondition, wrong check, or otherwise query-inappropriate procedure. The labels are therefore query-specific: a skill can be useful in one context and a risky sibling in another. The benchmark construction keeps this distinction close to the decision a retriever must make. Starting from a task-facing skill that is admitted for a query, the paired sibling changes the condition that makes a procedure usable: the referenced resource, temporal scope, input precondition, formula-preserving operation, unit convention, or output schema. The sibling remains plausible under ordinary semantic retrieval, but following it would move the agent away from the query’s verifier-facing target. The risk label is therefore an execution relation between a query and a skill, not an intrinsic safety label attached to the skill text. Candidate pools add library pressure around each pair. The helpful and risky siblings are ranked together with unrelated and partially related public skills, so the retrieval system must solve two coupled decisions: recover the active capability families from a larger library and choose the right representative within each active family. 

## 3.2 Evaluation Objective 

A retrieval system outputs a ranked list RK (qi) of at most K skills. Recall@K and NDCG@K measure whether the helpful skill is present and ranked highly. Harmful sibling rate (HSR@K) measures whether the query-specific risky sibling is exposed in the final top-K list: HSR@K = 1

n

> n

X

> i=1

I[s− 

> i

∈ RK (qi)] A relevance-only scorer can improve Recall@K and still increase HSR@K if it ranks both siblings highly. The target is therefore a utility-aware top-K ranking: keep s+ 

> i

high while preventing s− 

> i

from being exposed to the agent. 43.3 SkillResolve Overview 

SkillResolve factors same-capability skill selection into three components. A Capability Resolver determines which candidates should compete as alternative representatives. A Utility Scorer estimates how useful each candidate is for the current query. A Representative Selector keeps one highest-utility member from each resolved group before the final top-K ranking. This factorization separates the benchmark relation from the deployable method interface. The released benchmark relation g⋆ gives a controlled family source for measuring the within-family decision. Other family sources can be derived from public metadata, titles, or skill text. SkillResolve uses the same scoring and selection interface once a family source has produced candidate groups. 

## 3.4 Capability Resolution 

Let ρ denote a capability resolver. Given a query and candidate pool, it returns a set of active candidate groups Πq = ρ(q, C(q)) = {G1(q), . . . , G m(q)}

where each Gj (q) ⊆ C (q) contains candidates that should be treated as alternative representatives for the same resolved capability. The groups cover the candidate pool, with singleton groups allowed. A singleton resolver recovers ordinary individual ranking; the released benchmark family relation gives a controlled grouping; public metadata and text-derived resolvers give public family sources. Capability resolution does not decide which skill is helpful. It defines the local competitions that the scorer must settle. If a helpful skill and a risky sibling are placed in the same resolved group, the representative selector can expose only the one assigned higher query-conditioned utility. If they are split into different groups, both can survive into the final ranking. The quality of ρ therefore affects the recall–exposure tradeoff, while the utility scorer still decides which representative wins inside each group. 

## 3.5 Utility Learning from Confusable Skills 

SkillResolve learns a query-conditioned utility scorer Fθ (q, s ). For each training query qi, the positive example is the admitted helpful skill s+ 

> i

. The negative set Hi contains confusable library alternatives mined under the same query and candidate-pool protocol, with Hi ⊂ C (qi) \ { s+ 

> i

, s − 

> i

}. These negatives are not random nonmatches and are not treated as universally unsafe skills. They are query-conditioned competitors: skills that appear plausible in the library but were not admitted as the helpful skill for qi.The mining rule is fold-local. For each training query, SkillResolve ranks the fixed candidate pool with a base attribution-vote library signal, removes the admitted helpful skill and its paired risky sibling from the top 50, and keeps up to five highest-ranked remaining candidates as Hi. Dev and test queries never contribute training edges. The released benchmark relation is not used to mine negatives; it only defines representative competitions for controlled evaluation. Appendix B.2 replaces this mining source with lexical alternatives under the same folds, scorer, resolver, and selector. The utility scorer is built from cached query–candidate signals, not from a separately fine-tuned neural reranker. For each query–skill pair we form 

ϕ(q, s ) = [ ϕbase (q, s ), ϕ contract (κ(q), κ (s))] The learned utility is hθ (q, s ) = θ⊤ϕ(q, s ). The final score used at inference interpolates this learned utility with the attribution-vote library score a(q, s ): 

Fθ (q, s ) = α a (q, s ) + (1 − α) hθ (q, s )where α is selected on the dev fold. The base features in ϕ are normalized word TF-IDF, character TF-IDF, reciprocal-rank fusion, a routing-view score, the attribution-vote score, and fold-local attr/risk text-classifier scores fitted on cue-sanitized training text. Held-out labels are never used to fit these coordinates. The contract profile κ(x) is a deterministic text profile over six execution-facing fields: resource binding, precondition, API or temporal scope, output schema, procedure, and identifiers. Keyword and literal detec-tors extract file-like resources, quoted identifiers, versions, schema terms, applicability terms, and procedural 5verbs from query or skill text. For each field, the contract block compares query and skill profiles with over-lap, query-side coverage, and contrast features, plus flags for missing resource or precondition terms. This gives the linear scorer explicit dimensions for execution-contract differences without adding a neural judge. All score coordinates are min–max normalized within the evaluated candidate pool. The pairwise learner is L2-regularized logistic regression with a fixed seed, and α is selected on the dev fold before held-out evaluation. The scorer is trained by minimizing a pairwise logistic loss over training queries: 

L(θ) = X

> i

X

> s∈H i

log (1 + exp( −∆i(s))) + λ∥θ∥22

The margin inside the loss compares the admitted helpful skill against one confusable candidate under the same query: ∆i(s) = Fθ (qi, s + 

> i

) − Fθ (qi, s )Here λ ≥ 0 is the L2 regularization weight. Larger positive margins reduce the loss, so the objective teaches the scorer to prefer the admitted helpful skill over nearby library alternatives that compete under the same retrieval setting. Appendix B.2 tests this mining design. The paired risky sibling is reserved for evaluation and sibling-edge ablations, rather than used as a direct edge in the final utility-learning loss; training-fold risk labels enter only through the cached risk coordinate described above. 

## 3.6 Representative Selection 

Utility scoring alone still ranks individual skills. A top-K list may contain both a helpful skill and its risky same-family sibling if both receive high semantic scores. SkillResolve changes the candidate set before the global top-K ranking. It first resolves candidate groups with ρ, then runs a within-group utility competition. For each active group G ∈ Πq , SkillResolve computes us = Fθ (q, s ) for every candidate in the group. The selected representative is rep( G, q ) = arg max 

> s∈G

us

The final list ranks only these representatives by their stored utility scores: 

RK (q) = TopK   

> s∈{ rep( G,q ): G∈Πq}

us

Here TopK returns the K highest-scoring representatives in descending order. The global top-K decision is therefore made after the capability-resolved utility competition. If the helpful and risky skills share a resolved group and the scorer assigns higher utility to the helpful skill, representative selection keeps s+ 

> i

and removes s− 

> i

from the final candidate set.                                                              

> Algorithm 1: SkillResolve inference Input: query q; candidate pool C(q); capability resolver ρ; learned scorer components ( a, θ, α, κ ); budget K
> Output: ranked top-Kskill list RK(q)1Πq←ρ(q, C(q)) 2κq←κ(q)3P ← ∅ ;U← ∅
> 4for each active group G∈Πqdo
> 5for each s∈Gdo
> 6κs←κ(s)7ϕs←[ϕbase (q, s ), ϕ contract (κq, κ s)] 8hs←θ⊤ϕs
> 9U[s]←αa (q, s ) + (1 −α)hs
> 10 bsG←arg max s∈GU[s]11 P ← P ∪ { bsG}
> 12 RK(q)←TopK s∈P U[s]13 return RK(q)

6Algorithm 1 summarizes the inference interface. The resolver defines the candidate groups, the utility scorer profiles query and skill contracts before ordering candidates within each group, and the selector builds a temporary pool P with one representative per active group. Inference uses the learned scorer and the resolver output; it does not read helpful/risky labels for the test query. Representative selection is not surface-form de-duplication: it is a query-conditioned utility decision inside resolved capability groups. Section 4 evaluates the components by varying the scorer specification, the representative selector, and the family source. 

# 4 Experiments 

## 4.1 Benchmark and Protocol 

SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 turns the task in Section 3 into a fixed-library retrieval problem. Each labeled instance provides a public query, a helpful skill, and a same-capability risky sibling whose resource binding, precondition, procedure, API scope, or example would steer execution away from the query’s verifier-facing target. The 661 labeled pairs contain 630 answer-backed SRA-Bench pairs and 31 SkillsBench pairs with executable-test or oracle/verifier evidence. SkillRet plays a different role: its 6,660 public skills enlarge the fixed candidate pool, but its positive-retrieval qrels are not converted into harmful-sibling labels. The final evaluation pool has 7,982 candidates. The benchmark records source identifiers, admission class, risk type, split, and text hashes. It fixes a query-disjoint 446/68/147 release split with no cross-split query leakage, no helpful/risky split mismatch, and no detected label cues after cue-cleaning and manual inspection. Main results use grouped five-fold held-out aggregation over all 661 pairs: each fold holds out one query-group partition for testing, uses the next for model selection, and trains learned scorers on the remaining partitions. Appendix A documents the construction pipeline, release schema, hash/split checks, candidate-pool manifests, rank outputs, and reproduction script. SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 also releases a benchmark family relation over the final candidate pool. This relation contains 7,321 groups: 661 helpful/risk sibling groups of size two and 6,660 singleton SkillRet groups. It identifies which candidates are alternative representatives of a family; it does not identify which sibling is helpful. The main table uses this benchmark relation as a controlled source for the within-family representative decision. The public capability-resolution analysis below replaces it with public metadata/title and text-derived family sources under the same held-out protocol. We report Recall, harmful sibling rate (HSR), and NDCG at final context cutoffs. Recall and NDCG mea-sure helpful retrieval; HSR measures whether the query-specific risky sibling appears after any representative-selection step. Because the held-out pipeline is deterministic after dev selection, uncertainty is reported with 5,000-replicate paired bootstrap intervals over the 661 held-out predictions. 

## 4.2 Baselines 

We compare against baselines that target different parts of the retrieval problem. Attribution-listwise is the closest same-protocol comparison: it uses the same fixed candidate pool and label space, and applies a listwise attribution selector inspired by SkillsVote’s evidence-governed skill selection (Liu et al., 2026b). SkillRouter and BGE reranking provide zero-shot relevance references without SkillResolve utility training (Zheng et al., 2026; Chen et al., 2024). SkillRouter uses the official 0.6B embedding and reranker checkpoints in a zero-shot fixed-pool adaptation. BGE reranking applies a strong general reranker to the same retrieved pool. Hybrid lexical RRF uses reciprocal-rank fusion (Cormack et al., 2009). The component ablations test direct sibling supervision, representative selection, and training-negative sources under the same held-out protocol. Together, the baselines and ablations test three parts of the retrieval problem: whether relevance-oriented systems expose same-family risk, whether SkillResolve changes the recall–exposure tradeoff, and which com-ponents produce the final behavior. 7Helpful retrieval Risk exposure Method R3 ↑ N3 ↑ R5 ↑ N5 ↑ H3 ↓ H5 ↓                           

> Zero-shot fixed-pool references
> BGE 0.461 0.352 0.552 0.389 0.461 0.539 RRF 0.631 0.504 0.722 0.542 0.646 0.728 SkillRouter 0.654 0.534 0.699 0.553 0.693 0.719
> Same-protocol held-out training
> Attr.-listwise 0.676 0.596 0.747 0.626 00
> SkillResolve 0.766 0.699 0.818 0.721 00

Table 1: Main retrieval results on SkillResolve-Bench 1.0. R, N, and H denote Recall, NDCG, and HSR at the shown cutoff; Attr.-listwise is the same-protocol Attribution-listwise baseline. 

## 4.3 Main Results 

Relevance baselines expose same-capability risk. Table 1 separates zero-shot relevance references from same-protocol held-out training, and separates helpful retrieval from risk exposure. BGE, Hybrid lexical RRF, and SkillRouter recover useful capability matches, with Recall@3 from 0.461 to 0.654, but their HSR@3 remains high (0.461, 0.646, and 0.693). The error is not simply missing the broad capability: these systems often place both siblings near the top, leaving the wrong representative in executable context. 

SkillResolve improves ranking while suppressing exposure. SkillResolve obtains Recall@3 0.766, HSR@3=0, and NDCG@3 0.699. The closest same-protocol comparison, Attribution-listwise, also suppresses HSR@3 to zero; SkillResolve improves helpful ranking by 0.089 Recall@3 and 0.103 NDCG@3, with 95% intervals [0.062, 0.116] and [0.079, 0.126]. Against the official SkillRouter reference, SkillResolve raises Re-call@3 by 0.112 and NDCG@3 by 0.165 while removing 0.693 HSR@3 exposure. At K = 5, SkillResolve reaches Recall@5 0.818 and NDCG@5 0.721 with HSR@5=0, showing suppression rather than rank post-ponement. Appendix Tables 5 and 7 give wider cutoffs and paired intervals. 

## 4.4 Component Ablations 

Component ablations separate utility learning, sibling supervision, and one-per-family representative selec-tion. Table 2 reports helpful retrieval and risk exposure under the held-out protocol.                           

> Variant R@3 ↑HSR@3 ↓N@3 ↑
> SkillResolve 0.766 00.699
> −representative selection 0.762 0.236 0.696
> −contract features 0.758 00.695 + sibling guard 0.750 00.687 + sibling loss 0.744 00.678 Direct sibling loss only 0.676 00.596

Table 2: Component ablations for utility scoring and representative selection. Removing representative selection leaves helpful retrieval nearly unchanged but raises HSR@3 from 0 to 0.236. The largest exposure effect comes from representative selection. Removing it leaves helpful retrieval nearly unchanged (Recall@3 0.762, NDCG@3 0.696) but raises HSR@3 to 0.236; the paired HSR@3 reduction interval is [0.204, 0.269]. Removing contract features gives a smaller mean drop, from Recall@3 0.766 to 0.758 and NDCG@3 0.699 to 0.695, with intervals crossing zero. Thus the contract block is best read as an explicit scorer specification, while one-per-family selection is the main measured exposure-control operator. Sibling guard/loss variants keep HSR@3 at zero but do not improve helpful ranking. Appendix B.2 reports that confusable library negatives outperform BM25-mined lexical negatives by 0.059 Recall@3 and 0.064 NDCG@3 under the same base scorer. 84.5 Public Capability Resolution 

The released benchmark relation isolates the within-family representative decision. We then hold the scorer fixed and vary only how active candidate families are formed from public metadata/title or skill text. The same analysis also gives a simple exposure-control statement. 

Proposition. Let BK be the pairs whose risky sibling appears in the top-K list under the same scorer without representative selection, ϵ0 = |BK |/n , pB the fraction of those exposed pairs that are joined into one active group and ranked helpful above risky, and μK the residual rate of risky siblings newly promoted after grouping. For any fixed scorer, candidate pool, resolver, and cutoff, HSR@ K ≤ ϵ0(1 − pB ) + μK .

A joined helpful/risky pair with positive helpful-over-risk margin can expose only the helpful representative. Appendix B.5 gives the proof and full decomposition; Table 3 instantiates the bound at K = 3.                           

> Family source R@3 ↑HSR@3 ↓Join BPromo. Bound Ungrouped 0.762 0.236 0.000 00.236 Released relation 0.766 01.000 00Metadata/title 0.755 01.000 00Text cluster 0.755 01.000 00

Table 3: Public family-source analysis under the fixed scorer. Join B is conditioned on the no-selector exposure set B3; Promo. is the merge-promotion residual in the HSR@3 bound. Ungrouped ranking exposes risky siblings at HSR@3 0.236. When those exposure cases are joined into active competitions, the scorer’s helpful-over-risk margin lets representative selection remove the risky sibling from the final top-three context. Public metadata/title and text-derived family sources keep the same zero top-three exposure with Recall@3 about 0.755, but the metadata/title source does so with broader active groups. This is a granularity tradeoff of the public resolver, not evidence that metadata alone recovers a precise capability ontology; Appendix Table 9 reports the active-neighborhood diagnostics. 

# 5 Analysis and Execution Scope 

Behavior across risk types. The main-table HSR@3 result is not concentrated in a single risk category. SkillRouter exposes risky siblings across wrong-resource, wrong-precondition, and procedure/API/example strata, while removing representative selection from the same SkillResolve scorer exposes risk in each stratum as well. In this fixed-pool evaluation, SkillResolve keeps HSR@3 at zero across the measured strata while preserving helpful recall, consistent with the mechanism in Table 3: relevance scoring can place both siblings near the top, but representative selection decides which member of the active family reaches the final context. Appendix B.3 gives the stratified values, and Appendix A.1 illustrates resource, precondition, and procedure cases. 

Label and construction validity. The benchmark labels are tied to task consequences rather than topical difference alone. In a 14-task verifier-consequence slice, every helpful/repaired condition passes the public verifier twice, while every matched risky/corrupted condition is rejected; a broader SkillsBench sweep adds 31 risk-side verifier-failure logs. Construction checks also reduce the chance that HSR@3=0 is driven by a visible template: on a 50-pair rewrite stress test, detected template phrases fall from 0.47 to 0.03, SkillResolve remains at HSR@3=0, and removing representative selection raises HSR@3 to 0.860. A 120-row external preference check further aligns with the annotation direction, preferring the helpful skill in 101 cases and marking the annotated risky sibling as riskier in 104. These checks support label semantics and construction robustness, not additional main retrieval metrics; the rewrite slice uses a cached top-300 competition scope, so its high recall is not a full-pool recall estimate. 9Scope. HSR measures pre-execution exposure: whether a query-inappropriate sibling is placed into the context before the agent acts. Executor-specific outcomes depend on downstream policies and runtime checks, and open capability ontologies require a separate construction protocol. Public metadata/title and text-derived resolvers keep HSR@3 at zero in the fixed-pool analysis with Recall@3 about 0.755, but they also introduce broader active groups than the released benchmark relation. The metadata row is therefore a coarse public-resolver check rather than a precise ontology claim. The method lowers exposure to incorrect procedural context; executor robustness, skill-library maintenance, and fully open ontology construction remain separate problems. 

# 6 Conclusion 

This paper studies same-capability execution-risk skill retrieval, where a retriever reaches the right capability family yet exposes a query-inappropriate representative. We introduce SkillResolve-Bench 1.0, a benchmark with query-conditioned pairs of helpful skills and risky siblings, source-role and admission evidence, cue and split audits, and public-library pressure. SkillResolve is a reference method for this benchmark: it combines capability resolution, confusable-library utility scoring, and representative selection. On 661 pairs and 7,982 candidates, SkillResolve improves helpful ranking while keeping HSR@3=0, including against an official SkillRouter embedding-reranker baseline that retrieves helpful skills but exposes risky siblings frequently. Scalable skill libraries need evaluation protocols and retrieval objectives that choose a query-appropriate representative within each capability family. SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 makes this requirement measurable and auditable, while SkillResolve shows one effective way to act on it through a resolver interface followed by utility-conditioned representative selection. The no-selection ablation shows what positive retrieval metrics can hide: high helpful recall can still leave a risky sibling in the top-K context. 

# References 

Anthropic. Introducing agent skills. https://claude.com/blog/skills, 2025. Accessed 2026-06-04. Zachary Blumenfeld and Jim Webber. Aip: A graph representation for learning and governing agent skills, 2026. Jianlv Chen, Shitao Xiao, Peitian Zhang, Kun Luo, Defu Lian, and Zheng Liu. Bge m3-embedding: Multi-lingual, multi-functionality, multi-granularity text embeddings through self-knowledge distillation, 2024. Hongcheol Cho, Ryangkyung Kang, and Youngeun Kim. Skillret: A large-scale benchmark for skill retrieval in llm agents, 2026. Gordon V. Cormack, Charles L. A. Clarke, and Stefan Buettcher. Reciprocal rank fusion outperforms condorcet and individual rank learning methods. In Proceedings of the 32nd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval , pages 758–759, 2009. Yunhao Feng, Yifan Ding, Yingshui Tan, Boren Zheng, Yanming Guo, Xiaolong Li, Kun Zhai, Yishan Li, and Wenke Huang. Skilltrojan: Backdoor attacks on skill-based agent systems, 2026. Yudong Gao, Zongjie Li, Yuanyuan Yuan, Zimo Ji, Pingchuan Ma, and Shuai Wang. Skillreducer: Optimizing llm agent skills for token efficiency, 2026. Wenbo Guo, Wei Zeng, Chengwei Liu, Xiaojun Jia, Yijia Xu, Lei Tang, Yong Fang, and Yang Liu. Malskill-bench: A runtime-verified benchmark of malicious agent skills, 2026. Yinghan Hou and Zongyou Yang. Skillsieve: A hierarchical triage framework for detecting malicious ai agent skills, 2026. Chang Jin, An Wang, Zeming Wei, Kai Wang, Biaojie Zeng, Qiaosheng Zhang, Chao Yang, Jingjing Qu, Xia Hu, and Xingcheng Xu. Skillsafetybench: Evaluating agent safety under skill-facing attack surfaces, 2026. 10 Xiangyi Li, Yimin Liu, Wenbo Chen, Shenghan Zheng, et al. Skillsbench: Benchmarking how well agent skills work across diverse tasks, 2026a. Zhiyuan Li, Jingzheng Wu, Xiang Ling, Xing Cui, and Tianyue Luo. Towards secure agent skills: Architec-ture, threat taxonomy, and security analysis, 2026b. M. Danish Lim, I. Danial Bin Sharudin, Wen Han Chen, Cedric Lim, and Laura Wynter. Declarative skills for ai agents in knowledge-grounded tool-use workflows, 2026. Huawei Lin, Peng Li, Jie Song, Fuxin Jiang, and Tieying Zhang. Muse-autoskill: Self-evolving agents via skill creation, memory, management, and evaluation, 2026. Hongjun Liu, Yifei Ming, Shafiq Joty, and Chen Zhao. Harnessing llm agents with skill programs, 2026a. Hongyi Liu, Haoyan Yang, Tao Jiang, Bo Tang, Feiyu Xiong, and Zhiyu Li. Skillsvote: Lifecycle governance of agent skills from collection, recommendation to evolution, 2026b. Yujian Liu, Jiabao Ji, Li An, Tommi Jaakkola, Yang Zhang, and Shiyu Chang. How well do agentic skills work in the wild: Benchmarking llm skill usage in realistic settings, 2026c. Lijia Lv, Xuehai Tang, Jie Wen, Jizhong Han, and Songlin Hu. Structured security auditing and robustness enhancement for untrusted agent skills, 2026. Yuchen Ma, Yue Huang, Han Bao, Haomin Zhuang, Swadheen Shukla, Michel Galley, Xiangliang Zhang, and Stefan Feuerriegel. Skillgen: Verified inference-time agent skill synthesis, 2026. Xiangcheng Meng, Shu Wang, and Yixiang Fang. Skillrae: Agent skill-based context compilation for retrieval-augmented execution, 2026. Jingwei Ni, Yihao Liu, Xinpeng Liu, Yutao Sun, Mengyu Zhou, Pengyu Cheng, Dexin Wang, Erchao Zhao, Xiaoxi Jiang, and Guanjun Jiang. Trace2skill: Distill trajectory-local lessons into transferable agent skills, 2026. Yipeng Ouyang, Yi Xiao, Yuhao Gu, and Xianwei Zhang. Skillcompiler: A unified compilation framework for cross-platform llm agent skills. In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Agent Skills , 2026. Shidong Pan, Xiaoyu Sun, Tianyi Zhang, Dianshu Liao, Meixue Si, and Zhenchang Xing. Skillguard: Apermission framework for agent skills, 2026. Xinyuan Song, Hongji Pu, and Liang Zhao. Skillops: Managing llm agent skill libraries as self-maintaining software ecosystems, 2026. Weihang Su, Jianming Long, Qingyao Ai, Qiaozhi He, Yichen Tang, Changyue Wang, Yiteng Tu, Yingbo Wang, and Yiqun Liu. Skill retrieval augmentation for agentic ai, 2026. Pengyu Wan, Shuai Zhao, Zonghan Yang, Shuhui Lai, Ke Ma, Ben He, Zhenyu Chen, and Shengbo Eben Li. Skillos: Towards open-ended skill management for large language model agents, 2026. Jingxing Wang, Chenyu Zhou, Zhihui Fu, Jun Wang, Weiwen Liu, Weinan Zhang, and Jianghao Lin. Skills on the fly: Test-time adaptive skill synthesis for llm agents, 2026a. Zifei Wang, Wei Wen, Qiang Ji, Ruizhi Qiao, and Xing Sun. Skill is not document: A query-conditional benchmark and two-stage retriever for llm agent skill routing, 2026b. Duling Xu, Zheng Chen, Zaifeng Pan, Jiawei Guan, Dong Dong, Jialin Li, and Bangzheng Pu. Skillsmith: Compiling agent skills into boundary-guided runtime interfaces, 2026. Guanqun Yang. Skillseek: Plug-and-play skill retrieval for open-source agentic workflows. In Proceedings of the First Workshop on Agent Skills , 2026. Jiahao Ying, Boxian Ai, Wei Tang, Siyuan Liu, and Yixin Cao. Openskilleval: Automatically auditing the open skill ecosystem for llm agents, 2026. 11 Zhuoyun Yu, Xin Xie, Wuguannan Yao, Chenxi Wang, Lei Liang, Xiang Qi, and Shumin Deng. Skilladaptor: Self-adapting skills for llm agents from trajectories, 2026. Kun Zeng, Yu Huo, Siyu Zhang, Zi Ye, Yuecheng Zhuo, Haoyue Liu, Yuquan Lu, Junhao Wen, and Xiaoying Tang. Group of skills: Group-structured skill retrieval for agent skill libraries, 2026. Chi Zhang, Yimin Liu, Xinze Chen, and Ping Ji. What keeps agent skills from being reusable? evidence from 138k skill.md files. In Proceedings of Agent Skills ’26 , 2026. YanZhao Zheng, ZhenTao Zhang, Chao Ma, YuanQiang Yu, JiHuai Zhu, Yong Wu, Tianze Xu, Baohua Dong, Hangcheng Zhu, Ruohui Huang, and Gang Yu. Skillrouter: Skill routing for llm agents at scale, 2026. Yifan Zhou, Zhentao Zhang, Ziming Cheng, Shuo Zhang, Qizhen Lan, Zhangquan Chen, Zhi Yang, Qianyu Xu, Ronghao Chen, Huacan Wang, and Sen Hu. Skillgenbench: Benchmarking skill generation pipelines for llm agents, 2026a. Yingli Zhou, Shu Wang, Yaodong Su, Wenchuan Du, Yixiang Fang, and Xuemin Lin. A comprehensive survey on agent skills: Taxonomy, techniques, and applications, 2026b. 12 SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 construction and audit pipeline 

> The benchmark separates label admission, library pressure, auditability, and held-out retrieval evaluation.

Public sources 

> SRA-Bench + SkillsBench
> SkillRet library pressure
> 630 SRA pairs
> 31 SkillsBench pairs
> 6,660 public skills

Sibling admission 

> helpful skill +
> query-risk sibling
> 495 answer-backed
> 135 executable tests
> 31 oracle/verifier

Integrity checks 

> risk taxonomy,
> cue checks, hashes
> 0 label cues
> 0 split leakage
> 30 manual cue rows

Fixed pool 

> same benchmark
> candidate library
> 1,322 labeled skills
> + 6,660 SkillRet
> = 7,982 candidates

Evaluation release 

> metrics, folds,
> rank outputs
> 446/68/147 split
> 5-fold held-out
> Recall, NDCG, HSR

Figure 2: SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 construction pipeline. Label admission, public library pressure, integrity checks, fixed-pool evaluation, and release files are kept separate. 

# A Benchmark Documentation 

SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 separates the label source, the candidate library, and the evaluation protocol. Table 4 summarizes the construction evidence behind the benchmark contribution. The release is organized as a file-level benchmark interface rather than a prose-only description. It includes pair, candidate, family-relation, split, source-ledger, risk-taxonomy, and admission-evidence files; JSON schemas for the core tabular objects; frozen per-pair metric files and per-method rank outputs; and a release checker. The checker, scripts/run release checks.sh, validates schema and hash integrity, pair/candidate consistency, query-disjoint splits, family-relation size, and metric row counts, then reproduces the main-table summary metrics and paired-bootstrap files from the released per-pair outputs. The release also includes baseline rank outputs for lexical, BGE, SkillRouter, Attribution-listwise, and SkillResolve rows, allowing downstream users to trace where a method retrieves the helpful skill or exposes the risky sibling. It additionally records an HSR exposure certificate with per-pair top-three lists, helpful/risky score margins, and the script used to recompute the exposure counts from rank outputs. 

Component Evidence Sibling labels 661 helpful/risky pairs: 630 from SRA-Bench and 31 from SkillsBench Admission basis 495 answer-backed, 135 executable-test-backed, and 31 oracle/verifier-backed pairs Risk taxonomy 390 resource-pointer, 232 precondition, 34 procedure, 3 API, and 2 ex-ample risks Library pressure 6,660 public SkillRet skills added as unlabeled candidates, forming a 7,982-skill pool Release split Query-disjoint 446/68/147 release split plus five held-out folds over all 661 pairs Cue checks 0 missing pairs, 0 label cues, 0 identical pairs, 0 high-overlap pairs, and 0 disclosed cues in 30 manual rows 

Table 4: Benchmark construction evidence for SkillResolve-Bench 1.0. 

## A.1 Label Examples 

The following examples illustrate the label distinction used in SkillResolve-Bench 1.0. In each case, the helpful and risky siblings belong to the same capability family and are therefore plausible retrieval targets under topical relevance. The difference is the execution-controlling clause: which resource to bind, which precondition to preserve, or which procedural contract to follow. These cases are documentation examples, not additional evaluation rows beyond the fixed 661-pair benchmark. 13 Radar vital-sign analysis. One task asks an agent to estimate heart rate and breathing rate from 24 GHz continuous-wave radar recordings. Both siblings are radar-signal-processing skills: they describe I/Q parsing, clutter removal, range-bin or phase-signal extraction, and downstream vital-sign analysis. The helpful sibling ties these steps to the task-specific recording metadata and sidecar format. The risky sibling keeps the same radar pipeline but allows default artifact selection when several files or references are visible. The resulting failure is not an off-topic method; it is a plausible radar analysis run on the wrong capture or under the wrong I/Q convention, producing rates that can look numeric while no longer answer the requested instance. 

Offer-letter template filling. Another task asks the agent to fill a Word offer-letter template from employee data. Both siblings are document-generation skills for Word documents: they cover split template fields, headers and footers, nested tables, and template-preserving edits. The helpful sibling binds those operations to the requested template and the intended employee record. The risky sibling remains a relevant document skill, but weakens the binding to the task-specific file and data source. The execution consequence is a valid-looking document that may be generated from the wrong template, row, or field convention. Arelevance ranker can see the right document-manipulation vocabulary in both siblings, while the executor would experience different document semantics. 

Geodesic map construction. A code-generation task asks for a self-contained function that builds a folium map, computes pairwise geodesic distances, and raises ValueError when the input dictionary is empty. Both siblings are geopy skills and describe the same core operation: extract latitude and longitude fields, pass coordinate tuples to geodesic, and return a map with distance results. The helpful sibling treats the input contract as part of the procedure. The risky sibling keeps the same library guidance but relaxes the applicability condition when it conflicts with the query. The generated code can therefore import the right packages and follow the right distance formula while failing the oracle by skipping the required empty-input exception or by handling the dictionary schema incorrectly. 

# B Retrieval and Mechanism Analyses 

## B.1 Extended Cutoff Results 

Table 5 reports the same fixed-pool comparison at K = 20. This wider cutoff probes whether the helpful skill remains recoverable when the candidate window expands, and whether risky siblings re-enter the retrieved set outside the final-context cutoffs used in the main table. All rows use the same 661 held-out pairs from SkillResolve-Bench 1.0.                      

> Method R@20 ↑NDCG@20 ↑HSR@20 ↓
> BGE rerank top20 0.877 0.482 0.879 Hybrid lexical RRF 0.877 0.587 0.879 SkillRouter 0.784 0.577 0.814 Attribution-listwise 0.853 0.657 0
> SkillResolve 0.911 0.747 0

Table 5: Extended cutoff results at K = 20 on SkillResolve-Bench 1.0. 

## B.2 Training-Negative Ablation 

The training-negative ablation isolates how negatives are mined before the contract block is added. The lexical alternatives keep the same folds, base features, tuning rule, resolver, and representative selector, changing only the mining ranker. Word TF-IDF, character TF-IDF, and hybrid lexical negatives reach Recall@3 between 0.670 and 0.676 and NDCG@3 between 0.593 and 0.596. BM25 negatives improve to Recall@3 0.699 and NDCG@3 0.631. Confusable library negatives reach Recall@3 0.758 and NDCG@3 0.695, while all rows keep HSR@3=0. 14 B.3 Risk-Type Behavior 

Table 6 reports the measured HSR@3 values used in Section 5. The procedure/API/example row merges poisoned-procedure, stale-API, and misleading-example risks because the latter two strata contain only three and two rows. The final column reports SkillResolve Recall@3 to show helpful retrieval within each stratum.                            

> Stratum nHybrid BGE Router No sel. Public SR R3 Resource 390 0.654 0.446 0.656 0.192 00.808 Precondition 232 0.608 0.470 0.746 0.263 00.685 Proc/API/ex. 39 0.795 0.564 0.744 0.513 00.821 All pairs 661 0.646 0.461 0.693 0.236 00.766

Table 6: Risk-type behavior on SkillResolve-Bench 1.0. Hybrid through Public report HSR@3; Public denotes the metadata/title and text-derived family sources, which both have HSR@3=0. SR R3 reports SkillResolve helpful recall under the released benchmark relation. 

## B.4 Paired Bootstrap Intervals 

Table 7 reports the paired intervals behind the main result and component claims. All intervals use 5,000 bootstrap replicates over the 661 held-out predictions, so the shared sample size is omitted from the table. Positive Recall and NDCG deltas favor SkillResolve; HSR deltas are exposure reductions. Baseline rows compare SkillResolve against the method named in the Contrast column.                         

> Contrast Metric ∆95% CI SkillRouter Recall@3 0.112 [0.073, 0.150] NDCG@3 0.165 [0.130, 0.199] HSR@3 reduction 0.693 [0.657, 0.728] Attribution-listwise Recall@3 0.089 [0.062, 0.116] NDCG@3 0.103 [0.079, 0.126] Contract block Recall@3 0.008 [-0.008, 0.023] NDCG@3 0.004 [-0.008, 0.016] Rep. selector HSR@3 reduction 0.236 [0.204, 0.269] Confusable mining Recall@3 0.059 [0.033, 0.083] NDCG@3 0.064 [0.043, 0.084]

Table 7: Paired bootstrap intervals for main comparisons and ablations. 

## B.5 Mechanism Bound for Risk Exposure 

This subsection gives the decomposition behind the Bound column in Table 3. It is a sufficient mechanism statement for the fixed benchmark protocol, scorer, candidate pool, resolver, and cutoff; it is not a deployment guarantee for arbitrary skill libraries. For held-out pair i, let qi be the query, s+ 

> i

the helpful skill, s− 

> i

the risky sibling, F (qi, s ) the final utility score, AK the final top-K list after representative selection, and A0 

> K

the top-K list under the same scorer without representative selection. Define BK = {i : s− 

> i

∈ A0 

> K

} and ϵ0 = |BK |/n . For i ∈ BK , let Ji = 1 if 

s+ 

> i

and s− 

> i

are joined into the same active group, let Mi = 1 if F (qi, s + 

> i

) > F (qi, s − 

> i

), and let Pi = JiMi.Write pB = |BK |−1 P 

> i∈BK

Pi when BK is nonempty, and set pB = 1 when BK is empty. Finally, let 

μK = n−1 P 

> i

1[i / ∈ BK ∧ s− 

> i

∈ AK ] be the risk-centric merge-promotion residual. 

Proposition. For any fixed scorer, candidate pool, resolver, and cutoff K,HSR@ K ≤ ϵ0(1 − pB ) + μK .

Moreover, with jB = |BK |−1 P 

> i∈BK

Ji and eB = |BK |−1 P 

> i∈BK

(1 − Mi), HSR@ K ≤ ϵ0(1 − jB + eB ) + μK .

15 Proof sketch. Split risky exposure into pairs already exposed by the no-selector list ( i ∈ BK ) and pairs not exposed by that list. If Ji = Mi = 1, SkillResolve selects one representative from the active group by maximizing F (qi, s ), so s− 

> i

cannot be the representative and cannot enter the final top-K list. Thus, among pairs in BK , at most the fraction 1 − pB can remain exposed. Pairs outside BK that become exposed after grouping are counted exactly by μK . Dividing by n gives the first bound. The second follows from 1 − JiMi ≤ (1 − Ji) + (1 − Mi) averaged over BK . For the K = 3 instantiation in Table 3, the no-selector exposure set contains 156 of 661 pairs ( ϵ0 = 0 .236). The released benchmark relation, metadata/title resolver, and text resolver all join the exposed pairs with positive helpful-over-risk margin ( pB = 1) and have μK = 0, giving bound 0. The ungrouped ranking has pB = 0 and recovers the observed HSR@3 value 0.236. 

## B.6 Exposure-Path Audit 

The mechanism bound abstracts exposure into a few sufficient quantities. The release makes these quantities inspectable at the per-pair level: it starts from the no-selector top-three list, checks whether the helpful and risky siblings enter an active same-family competition, records the within-query utility margin, and recomputes HSR from the final top-three list. Table 8 summarizes the K = 3 audit.             

> Quantity Value No-selector top-three risky exposure 156/661 Exposed pairs joined by released relation 156/156 Helpful utility exceeds risky utility among exposed pairs 156/156 Merge-promotion residual 0SkillResolve top-three risky exposure from top-three ranks 0/661 Frozen per-pair rank/HSR mismatches 0
> F(q, s +)−F(q, s −) margin: min / median / p95 0.009 / 0.226 / 0.353

Table 8: HSR exposure-path audit for the released SkillResolve relation at K = 3. The score margin is computed within each query using the final fused utility score used by representative selection. The audit separates the ranking problem from the representative-selection effect. Risky siblings appear in the no-selector top three for 156 held-out pairs, so they remain rank-competitive under the same utility scorer. In the released relation, all of these exposed pairs are active same-family competitions, and the helpful sibling has the higher within-query utility score in every case. The complete release artifact contains all 661 per-pair top-three lists and the 156 exposed pair rows, so the aggregate HSR counts can be recomputed without reading the summary tables. 

## B.7 Capability Resolver Details 

The public resolver variants use only public metadata or skill text. Without a resolver, each candidate is treated as a singleton; the metadata/title source groups public metadata fields and titles; and the text resolver forms active neighborhoods from the top 80 text neighbors with similarity threshold 0.65. Table 9 reports held-out retrieval behavior under the fixed utility scorer and two active-neighborhood checks. Active join is the fraction of all held-out pairs for which the helpful and risky siblings both enter the active scoring neighborhood and are placed in one group. It is a marginal co-activity statistic, so it differs from the conditional Join B term in Table 3, which is computed only over the no-selector exposure set B3. For co-active pairs, the released relation groups the pair by construction; in this fixed pool, the public metadata/title and text resolvers group the same co-active sibling pairs, yielding the same active-join value. Equal HSR values do not imply equal resolver quality: metadata/title grouping suppresses top-three exposure in this fixed pool, but it forms much broader active groups than either the released benchmark relation or the text-derived resolver. The Merge column is therefore a resolver-granularity measure, not the merge-promotion residual μK used in Appendix B.5. 16 Family source Act. join Merge R@3 HSR@3 NDCG@3 Ungrouped 0 0 0.762 0.236 0.696 Released relation 0.831 0 0.766 0 0.699 Metadata/title 0.831 1.000 0.755 0 0.692 Text cluster 0.831 0.667 0.755 0 0.692 

Table 9: Capability resolver behavior under grouped held-out evaluation. Active join is measured over all held-out pairs after the active-neighborhood filter; Join B in Table 3 is conditioned on the no-selector exposure set. 

# C Label Validity Evidence 

The following analyses support the query-specific helpful/risky sibling labels from three directions: robustness to surface rewrites, external preference judgments, and public verifier consequences. They are not additional retrieval benchmarks, and they do not change the fixed 661-pair main evaluation. 

## C.1 Targeted Rewrite Robustness 

SkillResolve-Bench 1.0 uses controlled sibling construction to isolate same-capability execution risk. To check whether HSR@3=0 is tied to one opening template or a single writing pattern, we rewrote a stratified 50-pair held-out slice into five deterministic documentation formats while removing the original template phrasing. The analysis retrains the fold-local utility scorer, rebuilds text-dependent features, and evaluates each selected query over its cached top-300 competition scope plus the matched helpful/risky siblings. Table 10 reports the fixed utility scorer at K = 3.                        

> Skills Selection R@3 ↑HSR@3 ↓N@3 ↑Cues Original Rep. select 0.800 00.746 0.47 Rewritten Rep. select 1.000 00.968 0.03 Rewritten None 0.980 0.860 0.958 0.03

Table 10: Targeted rewrite analysis on a stratified 50-pair held-out slice. Rep. select uses the released benchmark relation and representative selection; N denotes NDCG. Cues report the mean number of detected original template phrases per candidate skill. The no-selector row shows that rewritten risky siblings remain rank-competitive when representative selection is removed. This analysis is narrower than the main evaluation: it is a stress slice over selected queries rather than the full 7,982-candidate Table 1 protocol. The high recall in the rewritten rows is therefore not a full-pool recall estimate. The diagnostic supports construction validity by showing that, after removing the original phrasing and varying the skill format, risky-sibling exposure remains controlled by representative selection rather than by the disappearance of the risky sibling from the ranking problem. 

## C.2 External Preference Check 

The preference check uses a fixed 120-row subset to test whether the helpful/risky distinction is recognizable from query-conditioned skill snippets. Each input contains a query excerpt and anonymized snippets for the paired helpful and risky candidates, and asks which candidate is more useful and which is riskier for the current query. The independent judgment prefers the helpful skill in 101 of 120 pairs, prefers the annotated risky sibling in 4, and ties in 15; it marks the annotated risky sibling as riskier in 104 of 120 pairs. The signal is strongest on execution-backed rows and directionally aligned on answer-backed rows, where most ties occur. 

## C.3 Execution-Consequence Slice 

The execution-consequence slice uses public verifier-backed tasks. Its primary slice uses controlled-corruption cells: the helpful/repaired condition runs through the official solution and verifier twice, and the matched 17 risky/corrupted condition is admitted only when the official verifier rejects the resulting output. Table 11 summarizes the execution-facing evidence together with the external preference check. These rows are separate from the retrieval table: they record support for the sibling label rather than additional retrieval metrics.                

> Evidence nHelpful signal Risk signal External preference 120 101/120 preferred 104/120 riskier Verifier slice 14 14/14 pass 14/14 fail SkillsBench low-cost 88/8 pass 8/8 fail SkillsBench sweep 31 –31/31 fail

Table 11: Label-validity evidence for the helpful/risky sibling distinction. The rows are not mixed into main retrieval metrics. The primary verifier slice covers econ detrending, embedded-workbook repair, and lab unit harmonization tasks. It spans missing resources, poisoned procedures, wrong preconditions, stale references, and misleading examples. The older SkillsBench slice is retained as public verifier-backed support: all eight helpful variants in the low-cost slice pass the official oracle with reward 1.0, while all eight matched risk-side artifacts receive non-passing verifier rewards. The broader SkillsBench sweep adds 31 risk-side non-passing logs, including wrong preconditions and stale API references. These checks do not expand the 661-pair retrieval benchmark; they clarify what the risky-sibling label means when the corresponding condition is executed. 18